 "So you're going to go through with it, then," Gandalf the Wizard sid 
slowly.
     "I am," Bilbo replied. "I've been planning this for a long time. 
It'll give the Hobbits of the Shire something to talk about for the next 
nine days - or ninety-nine, more likely. Anyway, at least I'll have my 
little joke."
     "Who will laugh, I wonder?" Gandalf mused aloud, scratching his 
beard idly.

     For weeks carts and caravans were coming from all over Middle-earth 
to bring provisions for the Grand Old Party, as Bilbo referred to it. 
Wagons of food from the Dwarvish mines at Erebor, shiny rocks from the 
Sea-elves and fancy seductive packages from southern Mirkwood arrived 
daily, making the neighborhood generally more crowded and cluttering up 
avenues. Even those who hadn't said anything bad about Bilbo before were 
starting to show their annoyance. "Mr. Bilbo Baggins is starting to get a 
mite annoying," old Gaffer Gamgee grumbled, standing outside the pub. 
"Queer goings-on, and no mistake. Why just yesterday a bunch o' pesky 
Wood-elves dragged their cart right acrost my yard and ruined my taters!"
     "A bunch of Men from Bree came to my place yesterday and tried to 
sell me some aluminum siding," mused Old Noakes of Bywater. "They said it 
was because they had extra after building that horrible Quonset hut over 
the Party Tree, and they were trying to unload it. Strange folk 
hereabouts."
     "Yes, but it's good for the economy," sneered Bill Ferny, the local 
banker. "A lot more money in circulation. Market's been doing well. 
Unionization is down because of all the entry-level service positions 
that are being created. Widening gap between the haves and have-nots, 
don't you think? Good to find work for idle hands."
     "And you don't know nothin' about anythin', Ferny," Gaffer Gamgee 
snapped, echoing the popular community sentiment. "Mr. Bilbo Baggins is a 
right bastard, as I've often said, and it's small wonder if trouble don't 
come of him and his imperialist ways. The Revolution's a'comin', and it's 
the likes o'you who'll be the first ag'inst the wall, so sayeth the 
Lord." And with that he spat a well-aimed beer-nut into Ferny's glass.

     At last the day of the Big Party arrived. Everywhere there was too 
much to eat, and by midafternoon there were broken presents lying all 
over the Shire attesting to the low quality of their manufacture. Gandalf 
set off a series of fireworks later on in the day, including great 
skywriting missiles and little flaming butterflies who took to wing, 
sailed off into the Eastfarthing and burned all its trees to the ground.
     The last firework sent up a great black smoke which took the shape 
of a giant mountain of fire. A flicker could be seen of a giant dragon 
sailing about its peak; after a moment the great dragon went sailing over 
the heads of the crowd, causing great panic and consternation and six 
outright heart attacks before imploding somewhere over the 
Sackville-Baggins' neighborhood, causing considerable property damage 
which was never properly repaired generations afterward.
     "That is the signal for supper!" Bilbo cried out to the survivors, 
who were only partly mollified.
     Later on, in the specially-designed quonset hut which Bilbo had 
built especially for the occasion, all his friends and neighbors were 
helping themselves to their third helpings of macaroni and cheese and 
potato salad (the latter laced liberally with what Bilbo called the 
"traditional secret ingredient", which while not actually a narcotic 
still had unusual effects, the sum of which were still under scientific 
inquiry in some circles), Bilbo stood up and motioned for quiet. "A 
speech! A speech!" some of his neighbors cried out in fear.
     _My dear Hobbits!_ Bilbo began. There was much cheering at this, 
as Hobbits on the whole are a rather egocentric lot, and anyway the 
latest round of potato salad was beginning to kick in.
     _My dear Bagginses and Bracegirdles, Boffins and Borfledebees, 
Casmits and Cantankerums, Fassbinders and Fazoolas, Wombats and 
Wafflefoots._ "WaffleFEET!" cried out an irate old man at the back, in 
fact the very man who had earned the name when Bilbo's nephew Frodo had 
accidentally dropped a hot waffle-iron on his feet some years ago. He had 
borne the Bagginses no ill-will, since the settlement was quite generous.
     _Waflefoots,_ continued Bilbo, oblivious. _This is my nine hundreth 
birthday! And though one million years is too short a time to have spent 
with you all..._
     There was some muffled converstaion throughout the hall, which Bilbo 
took notice of. _Well, on bad days it seems like a million years,_ he 
explained. _Anyway, though ten billion years is long enough to endure 
from all of you, this is IT... I am GOING... I am leaving NOW... 
GoodBYE!_ And with that Bilbo leaped up, tore all his clothes off, 
scattering them about the astoinished guests' heads, and ran from the 
great Hut screaming and flailing his arms.
     Young Frodo looked on in bemusement, refusing to answer questions 
from the astonished crowd. Everyone knew, of course, that Bilbo was a big 
man in the community. But - and Frodo looked at the crowd, particularly 
noting the astonishment on old Lobelia's face - until now, nobody knew just 
_how_ big.

     "Well! That's done!" Bilbo laughed, emerging from the bedroom at Bag 
End freshly dressed. "You know, Gandalf, I've been wanting to do that for 
as long as I can remember. Now I think this would be an excellent time to 
leave the Shire, at least before they can all find their torches and 
axe-handles. Everything stays with Frodo, as we promised."
     "Including the Ring?" Gandalf asked.
     "Well, yes, I suppose so," Bilbo replied. He pulled the Ring out 
from under his cloak, where it hung on a fine golden chain Bilbo had 
stolen of old from the Brandybucks. "Still, though, I kind of hate to get 
rid of it."
     "This seemed to me to be the only thing worthwhile about your whole 
stupid plan," Gandalf said uncharacteristically. "Put it on the mantel 
and walk away from it. It has got far too much hold on you. Let it go!"
     "It's mine! And I shall keep it, I say!"
     Gandalf raised himself up to his full height. Bilbo's hand reached 
quietly for the hilt of his sword. "It will be my turn to get angry 
soon," the wizard intoned. "Listen to me: you must give Frodo the Ring!"
     Bilbo suddenly laughed. "Oh, _that_?" he grinned. "Well, of _course_ 
I'm giving him the Ring! I thought you meant the _chain._" Slipping the 
Ring off the chain he set the circle of gold on the mantel without a 
second thought. Then he slipped the chain about his neck. "I love this 
chain. Stole it from old Matuseck Brandybuck back before he went senile. 
Wouldn't part with it for love nor money. No, I don't give two flies 
about the Ring. Nothing but trouble, that thing has been.
     "Well, I'm off, Gandalf! I'm off on the road again, and not a moment 
too soon by the look of that crowd down there." And taking an old 
walking-stick from the stand by the door Bilbo went outside, taking a 
path around the back of the Hill so he could leave unobserved, and as he 
left he began singing a song quietly to himself:

     "While often by the door I lie
      And look upon the mountains' feet
      And think of rains and hikers' pains
      And sleeping wetly in the sleet,

      When darkness' cry does terrify
      And wilderness encircles you,
      And being food for goblins' brood
      Is one choice, and starvation two;

      Then staying home instead of roam
      Will have a very great appeal!
      Forego the Quest! And have a rest!
      Let Dwarves and Elves and wizards squeal!

      But since the Shire is filled with ire,
      And all my neighbors fevers grip,
      It's plain to see! I must agree!
      The time has come to take a trip!"

     Hours later Frodo returned to Bag End, a little glad to have thrown 
off the pursuit at last. He started at first to discovere someone waiting 
for him in the living-room, but sighed with relief when he saw it was 
only Gandalf.
     "Did he get away?" Frodo asked.
     "He did," Gandalf replied. "And just at the last, for they were 
getting ready to set after him with dogs. Luckily he doubled back at the 
Three-Farthing Stone, as I recommended, or there would be a special 
bonfire in Tuckborough tonight. Are you well?"
     "Yes," Frodo replied. "I managed to convince everyone I was 
uninvolved with the Hay Incident."
     "Good," Gandalf said. He lit his pipe with a nearby candle and 
looked at Frodo evenly. "He left things for you on the mantel. The ded to 
Bag End, a signed statement saying you were only an unwitting accomplice 
in the Bywater Incident, and-"
     "The Ring!" Frodo said, looking at the mantel with astonishment. 
"Has he left me that?"
     "He has," Gandalf replied, "though you'll have to find a new chain. 
But if I may counsel you in the use of your own - don't use it! Now or 
later! It may have other powers besides quick and easy seduction."
     "I can't believe Bilbo left me the Ring," Frodo gasped. "He used to 
say that it and a bottle of Westfarthing Chinook was all you needed for 
the perfect weekend."
     "Well, lock it up someplace and stay away from it," Gandalf intoned. 
"No Took-wives, no Elf-virgins, and no real estate deals. And no political 
aspirations! In the morning I'm off to see if I can learn more about it. 
In the meantime leave it unused until I return."
     "I'll, uh, I'll think about that, all right," Frodo blurted, trying 
hard not to think about the Ring and young Cassiopiea Took.
     The next morning Gandalf left, leaving Frodo with only his thoughts, 
his yearnings and a half-empty bottle of Westfarthing Chinook for 
company.
CHAPTER TWO

THE SHADOW OF THE PAST

The talk did not die down in nine or even ninety-nine days. Indeed, the
story of Banger Baggins, who used to run around naked at night and ravish
young maidens, became a favourite story, not least among those who could lay
a claim to belonging to that category.
  Frodo, however, remained wed to celibacy. He lived alone, as Bilbo had
done; but he had a good many friends, especially among the younger hobbits.
His closest friends were Pipsqueak Took and Mobster Brandybuck, one of them
friendly and willing if somewhat pimply, the other as cold as ice and as
ruthless as a society hostess.
  Frodo enjoyed being his own master and *the* Mr Baggins of Bag End. He
lived on quietly, increasing his inherited fortune through wise investments
and high-interest loans which earned him the nickname of "Sharkey", until
his fiftieth birthday drew near. Then Gandalf turned up again.
  Frodo welcomed his old friend with surprise and great delight. They looked
hard at one another.
  "You are becming grossly fat, Frodo", said Gandalf. "Luckily, I have some
really good exercise in store for you."
  "You are too kind", murmured Frodo. "Please don't exert yourself on my
behalf."
  "I'm afraid I have to", replied the wizard. "That ring of yours - do you
still have it?"
  "Yes, of course", said Frodo. "I would gladly get rid of it; every time
I've tried it on I kept stumbling over my own invisible feet since I could
not see them. I wish I had never acepted the pesky thing. Will you not take
the the ring, Gandalf!"
  "No!" cried Gandalf, springing to his feet. "That ring would bugger up my
spells completely. No, no, I refuse! But I can give you some advice about
how to get rid of it, if you want."
  "What is that?" demanded Frodo.
  "Take it to Mordor and drop it in the Cracks of Doom", said Gandalf. "If
you don't, Sauron will come and take it. And you don't want him to do that;
he gets pissed off at people who have touched his precious ring." He lit a
cigar. " But if you put an end to the ring, you off Sauron too. The little
dimwit infused so much of himself in the ring that his destruction with it
is certain."
  "But yesterday you told me that Sauron thought the ring had been
destroyed."
  "I did. He thought it had been thrown into the Cracks of Doom, as should
have happened. Now, however, he knows that it isn't so"
  "But how can he have thought any such thing? If the ring had been
destroyed he wouldn't have been around; so he should have realized that the
ring had not been destroyed."
  "As I told you, he is a dimwit. He really is incredibly stupid.All the
same, there was a scholarly article in *The Minas Tirith Review* about the
Ring yesterday, written by the learned Dr Faramir. Sauron must have read
that article; he subscribes to an excellent newscutting agency. His
emissaries may be on their way to the Shire at this very moment."
  "I had better leave at once", said Frodo.
  "I agree", said Gandalf. Suddenly he stopped as if listening. Frodo became
aware  that all was very quiet, inside and outside. Gandalf crept  to one
side of the windoiw. Then with a dart he sprang to the sill, and thrust a
long arm out as if to catch somebody. Then his movement stopped and he
snorted.
  "No one has been eavesdropping", he said. "Excellent. You'd better leave
as soon as possible, Frodo. Take that servant of yours, Sam, with you. He
looks like a sturdy lad and might come in useful."
THREE IS COMPANY

  Despite Frodo's resolution to leave at once, he was in truth very
reluctant to start, now that it had come to the point.  One afternoon
two or three weeks after Gandalf's warning (or maybe four, or perhaps
just one; Frodo spent most of the days that followed drunk, and rather
lost track of time), Frodo went to the wizard for advice.  "Gandalf,"
he asked, voice filled with concern, "I _can't_ just vanish without a
trace.  After Bilbo's farewell stunt, I'd never be able to look the
old hobbit in the eye again if I didn't keep up the family tradition.
Like father, like son, you know."

  Gandalf, confused, said, "Father?  What are you talking about?
Bilbo was your first and second cousin, once removed either way... I
should know, I had to sit through two and a half hours of old Gaffer
Gamgee's genealogy lectures at the party.  Seating me next to him was
one of Bilbo's little jokes."

  "Oh, well, you know," Frodo fumbled, "Bilbo _did_ have the Ring and
all, and my mother was quite comely when she was a lass... the whole
thing has been discussed before, though not generally in polite
company.  I'd rather not talk about it.  And anyway, this isn't
getting me any closer to an excuse to leave."

  "Don't worry, Frodo," replied Gandalf.  "I thought you might prove
to be hesitant, so I've taken some steps of my own to provide for a
suitably ignominious departure for you."

  Just as Frodo gave Gandalf a sharp, suspicious look, a hammering
sound came down the hall from the front door.  "What in the heavens is
that?" cried Frodo.

  "Unless I miss my guess," Gandalf explained, "those will be your
creditors.  I took the liberty of closing your bank accounts and
taking out a number of short term loans in your name from some of your
competitors in the 'Sharkey' business.  As I recall, they come due
today.  Incidentally, I've got to be off to, er, scout out the road
ahead, so I'll just slip out and catch up with you later.  Look for me
in Bree!"  And with that, the old wizard dashed off and was gone.

  Frodo leapt out of his chair in a panic, as the hammering on the
door became more insistent.  "What have you done with my money?" he
yelled in the direction Gandalf had run, but he knew that chasing the
wizard would only waste valuable escape time.  Fortunately, Pipsqueak
and Mobster were visiting for the day, accompanied by Pipsqueak's
annoying younger brother Fatty, and Sam was back in the cellar doing
some unspecified repairs.  Quickly, Frodo rounded up his friends and
explained the situation.

  "The Sackville-Baggins 'family' is here to take everything they can
get their grubby hands on," Frodo explained, "and that includes me and
all of my friends.  We'd better clear out in short order if we don't
want to end up at the bottom of Bywater Pool.  Quickly, now, run
through the hole and grab everything valuable that isn't bolted down:
the thought of the Sackville-Bagginses getting a hold of my things
makes me sick, and anyway, I'll be broke if we don't pile up some of
this loot before we go."

  Quickly, the five hobbits scattered throughout the hole, filling old
pillow cases with whatever they could carry.  Frodo had a strong door,
but now the pounding gave way to a repeated ramming sound; he knew
they didn't have much time.  He met Pipsqueak, Mobster, and Fatty in
the study as they had agreed: it was on the lefthand side of the hall
(going in) like all the best rooms, for these were the only ones to
have windows large enough for a desperate hobbit to climb out in an
emergency.  After a tense minute's delay, Frodo shouted back into the
hole.  "Sam!" he called.  "Sam!  Time!"

  "Coming, sir!" came the answer from far within, followed soon by Sam
himself, wiping his mouth.  "I was just saying farewell to Rosi--um,
the beer-barrel in the cellar."

  Frodo looked down at Sam's hand.  "Give me that Ring," he snapped,
as he yanked the ancient artifact off of Sam's finger.  With that,
they all scrambled out of the window along with their bags of loot.
Just at that moment, a great crash came from the hall as the door
finally gave way.

  "Sam," said Frodo once they were outside, "take this key to your
father, and tell him to hold on to it.  We're going need it when we
come back for revenge.  Then cut along the Row and meet us as quick as
you can at the gate in the lane beyond the meadows.  We are not going
through the village tonight.  Too many ears pricking and eyes prying."
Sam ran off at full speed, while Frodo and the others loaded the cart
that Mobster had fortunately brought along that morning.

  The sun went down.  Sad and frightening sounds came from within Bag
End in the dark, as the Sackville-Bagginses wrecked and looted the
place in their search for Frodo.  Once the cart had been hastily
packed, Frodo sent Mobster and Fatty with it on ahead.  Mobster was,
as a rule, terrible company on a hike, and Fatty was a hundred times
worse.  "Sam and Pipsqueak and I will meet you at the safehouse in
Crickhollow the day after tomorrow," he said, and they drove away as
quietly yet quickly as they could.

  Frodo looked back at the dark black windows of Bag End, some of
which were being smashed out as he watched.  One of the windows near
the cellar seemed to have a ripped piece of a hobbit lass's dress torn
and fluttering on a nail. He waved his hand to his long home.
"Good-bye!" he said, and then turned and (following Bilbo, if he had
known it) hurried after Pipsqueak down the garden path.  Taking the
most secret route they knew, they jumped over the low place in the
hedge at the bottom and took to the fields, passing into the blessed
concealment of darkness like a cattle rustler into the grasses.


  They met Sam at the gate, and proceeded along the deserted lane for
a mile or two, at which point they cut off into the fields to throw
off pursuit.  After some time they crossed the Water, and made their
way toward the hilly country to the south.  "Well, I'll say this,"
remarked Frodo as he looked back into the valley of Hobbiton and back
to the Hill, where tiny flames had begun to rise from the vicinity of
Bag End, "that _was_ quite an exit.  I wonder if I'll ever be able to
show my face in that valley again?"  Sam and Pipsqueak were walking on
ahead exchanging dirty stories, and Frodo's question went unanswered.

  The three friends walked on and on into the night.  Eventually, the
moon set, and after Pipsqueak nearly fell into a deep streambed for
the third time, the hobbits agreed that they should stop where they
were and sleep for the night.  Of course, none of them had thought to
take any bedding with them on the trip, so they all curled up on top
of the tree roots nearby, ignoring the soft, comfortable bed of
fir-needles that covered the ground beyond the roots.  They set no
watch: they had drawn lots, but when Frodo and Sam noticed Pipsqueak
cheating they all decided it was a lost cause and went to bed.

  A few creatures came and looked at them as they slept.  A fox
passing through the wood on business of his own stopped several
minutes and sniffed.  "Hobbits!" he thought.  "And sleeping out of
doors under a tree at that.  There's something mighty queer behind
this.  I'd better head off to tell my friends Bombadil, Gandalf, and
Elrond all about it in short order.  Good thing I can speak Westron."


  The next morning came, pale and clammy.  The three friends went on
walking through the trees, and Frodo began to chant to himself in a
low voice:

     The Road goes ever on and on,
     and on and on and on and on,
     and on and on the Road has gone,
     why did I let *Mobster* drive the cart?

Sam and Pipsqueak stopped and gave Frodo an odd look, but when he
didn't respond they all went on their way, deeper into the wood.

  The sun was beginning to get low and the hobbits had just passed
into a stand of beech trees when they heard hoofbeats on the road
behind them.  "Quick!" whispered Frodo, staring back the way they had
come.  "They must have found our tracks sooner than we thought.  Hide
behind the trees!"  He turned back around, and realized that his
friends hadn't needed his advice: they had already run a good ways
into the wood and buried themselves under a pile of leaves.  Frodo
himself only had time to duck behind a nearby statue of a Pukel-man
when a tall black horse came into view.

  On it sat a large black man, wearing a dark, dark grey cloak and
hood.  When the horse reached the statue level with Frodo it stopped,
and the black man started looking from side to side, breathing
heavily.  A light breeze blew in Frodo's direction, and Frodo caught a
whiff of a terrible smell like last Easter's missing egg.  He gagged,
and the black man stared toward his hiding place and began to climb
off of his horse.

  But at that moment there came a sound like mingled song and
laughter.  The black man started to tap his foot, then hum along with
the music.  Finally, he started singing out loud, and then suddenly
realized what he was doing.  He got an extremely sheepish look on his
face, leapt up on his horse, and rode away in utter embarrassment.

  "Elves!" exclaimed Sam, coming with Pipsqueak to Frodo's side.
"Elves, sir!"  Frodo nodded, and as the voices drew nearer, their song
became clearer:

     O! What are we doing,
     And where are we going?
     We're soon barbecuing!
     The river is flowing!
       O! tra-la-la-lally
         up out of the valley!

     O! What are we seeking,
     And where are we making?
     The faggots are reeking!
     The bannocks are baking!
       O! tril-lil-lil-lolly
         the vally was jolly,
            ha! ha!

Well, okay, not that much clearer, but Elves are like that.
Nevertheless, Sam stood enchanted.  "Is it true, Mr. Frodo, that Elves
have drugs the like of which no mortal has ever known?  It certainly
sounds like it."

  Frodo answered, with awe but not without disappointment.  "Yes, Sam.
These are, indeed, High Elves.  Sadly, they share not their precious
drugs with outsiders.  Still, they can be good company, and they sure
throw a great barbecue."

  As the Elves drew near, Frodo stepped out into the path.  "Elen sila
lumenn' omentielvo!" he said in his most friendly tones.

  The Elves appeared confused.  "What do you mean, Frodo, that your
sister has a wombat through her tea-time?"  Frodo cursed under his
breath, and swore a silent oath to himself never to trust Bilbo's
language lessons again.  The Elf went on, "No matter.  You look weary
and hungry; would you like to come with us to dinner?"

  "Certainly, good people," replied Frodo greatfully, for the dinner
invitations of the High Elves are rare and prized indeed, "but how do
you know my name?"

  "We have watched you long," they laughed, "and your father Bilbo
before you."  At this, Frodo winced, but they took no notice. "Your
adventures with that young Cassiopiea Took were quite amusing, and as
for Bilbo, well..." Frodo was now blushing furiously, and the Elves
(together with Sam and Pipsqueak) simply laughed again and said no
more.  They passed on into the night, until they came to a clearing in
the wood.

  In the clearing, there stood a ring of great upright standing
stones, connected from top to top with other great stone slabs all
around the circle.  "Welcome to Sto-wan-hensh, our hall of feasts,"
said Gildor, the leader of the Elves.  "You are fortunate: it is
almost time for supper."

  Even as Gildor spoke, an Elf sighting along two tall stones cried
out, "The stars are now in place!  It's ten o'clock; soup's on!"
Torches and bonfires leapt into life all around the stone circle, and
soon the entire company was happily eating barbecued fox and toasted
cornbread.  A large flat stone in the center of the ring had been
scrubbed clean, and was surrounded by blazing fires that heated it
almost until it glowed; an Elf was frying bacon on its top.  The
hobbits tried not to feel disappointed when the High Elves didn't
offer them any _miruvor_ when it was passed around, but other than
that the evening was perfect.

  Frodo soon decided to share some of his fears and concerns with
Gildor as they ate.  "Gildor, what would a black man be doing in the
Shire?  We were pursued by one today, and he only left when he heard
your company approach."

  "A black man?  In the Shire?" said Gildor doubtfully.  "I have never
heard of such a thing, not since the old days of the Kings and their
battles with Angmar.  Just about everyone in this part of the world is
Caucasian, and that's a fact."

  "And yet," explained Frodo, "he was there, and I was frightened.
I've never been comfortable around minorities."

  From the background, Pipsqueak spoke up, "Be sure to tell him about the
smelling!  I'm sure it is very important!"

  "Well," Frodo said to Gildor, "he did have this awful odor..."

  Gildor cut Frodo off sharply.  "Hold it right there.  This story is
racist enough as it is; we don't need any comments about 'Black
Breath' making it worse."

  "Right.  We'll drop the subject," said Frodo.  "Nevertheless, I _am_
pursued, even before I have left the Shire.  I am supposed to meet
Gandalf in Bree, but I don't know how I'll even make it that far, or
what to do if he isn't there.  I'm at a loss, I'm frightened, and I'm
bearing a terrible burden on which may rest the fate of all
Middle-earth.  Can you give me any advice?"

  "No.  Yes." said Gildor.
CHAPTER FOUR:  A SHORTCUT TO MUSHROOMS

	In the morning Frodo awoke refreshed.  He was lying in a bower made by
a living tree with branches laced and drooping to the ground;  his bed
was of fern and grass, deep and soft and strangely fragrent.  the scent
was almost intoxicating and Frodo was dizzy with light-headedness.  He
jumped out and went down.
	Sam was sitting in the grass near the edge of the wood quietly giggling
to himself.  Pipsqueak was standing studying the sky with open mouthed
awe.  There was no sign of the Elves.
	'They have left us some fruit and drink, and bread,' said Pipsqueak. 
'Come and have your breakfast.  The bread tastes strange, but
wonderful!  I didn't want to leave you any, but Sam thought it might do
you some good.'  At this the hobbits laughed under their hands at Frodo.
	Unperturbed, Frodo sat and sampled some of the Elves bread.  It was
brown and sweet and had an unusual peppery tang that he couldn't
identify.  Sam came and sat by him as he broke fast.  'What's the plan
for today?'  asked Pipsqueak.
	'To walk to Bucklebelt as quickly as possible,' answered Frodo, and
gave his attention to the food.  Odd as it was, it seemed to make him
feel better and better.
	'Do you think we'll see those Riders?' asked Pipsqueak cheerfully. 
Under the Elvin bread's spell, a whole troop of Black Riders did not
seem so alarming to him.
	'Yes, probably,' said Frodo, 'but I hope to get across the river
without their seeing us.'
	'Did you find out anything from Gildor?'
	'No, not really.'
	'Did you ask about the smell?'
	'We didn't discuss it,' said Frodo with small embarrassment.
	'You should have. I am sure it's terribly important!'
	The hobbits eyed Pipsqueak for a moment before they all broke out into
peels of laughter that they did not understand.
	'My, ' gasped Frodo after regaining some control over his mirth, 'this
is fine bread!'

	They soon broke camp and started again their long trek.  After a while,
Frodo called a halt and the Hobbits discovered that they had walked too
far to the south.  After some small debate, they made straight East into
a wood that offered some shelter against the coming rain.  As they
marched, Sam thought he caught a glint of steel in the distance and
stopped short.  As he turned his head to look, Sam could have sworn he
saw an elf-maid heavily armed and camoflauged peering from behind a bush
at him, but when he blinked, nothing was there.
	'What's the matter, Sam?' asked Pipsqueak.
	'What? Oh, nothing mistsr Pipsqueak, sir.  Just the rain playing tricks
on me, I suppose.  I could use a rest for a bit, and that's a fact.'
	To this they all agreed and made for the shelter of a majestic Elm.
	Frodo propped his back against the tree-trunk, and closed his eyes. 
Sam and Pipsqueak sat near, and they began to hum, and then to sing
softly:
		
		Yo!  Ho!  Ho!  and a bottle of rum!
		Fifteen men on a dead man's chest,
		The cabin-boy and Cap'n, an outrage to some.
		But me Parrot on me shoulder, he's the best.
		An the scurvvy dogs a lyin' in davy Jones' locker
		Will rise at the latter day - oh what a shocker!

Yo! Ho! Ho! they began again louder.  They stopped short suddenly. 
Frodo sprang to his feet.  A long-drawn wail came down the wind, like
the cry of some fell and lonely creature,
"<heh><hehhehehheh><snicker><SLAP><SPANK><heh><heheh><heheheh><snicker>
<heh><Bwwwaaaahahahahahahaa><heheheh>..........<heh>', it rose and fell,
and ended on a high peircing note.  Even as they stood, it was answered
by another cry fainter and further off, but no less blood-chilling.
	'What do  you think that was?' asked Pipsqueak in a terrified voice. 
'That weren't no bird I ever heard.'
	'It wasn't any bird or beast,' said Frodo, 'There were words in that
cry, though I could not catch them.' 

	No more was said and the Hobbits quickly gathered their gear and moved
on through the woods.  Very soon they came to a clearing and beyond to
feilds planted with poppy and a strange variety of mushroom.
	'I know these fields!' cried Pipsquak.  'We've wandered farther south
than we thought.  These are Michel Delving's fields.'
	'Who's that?' asked Sam.
	'I'm sorry. You'd know him better as Farmer Maggot, I think.'
	'One trouble after another,' said Frodo.  'I've been horribly afraid
of  Farmer Maggot ever since he caught me trying to steal some of his
mushrooms as a lad.  He beat me and then showed me to his wood shed. 
"See, lads," he said, "next time this varmint sets foot on my land, you
can eat him.  Now see him off!"  They chased me all the way to the ferry
and I've never got over the fright!'
	'Well, it's time you made it up, then, cousin,' said Pipsqueak and
headed off across the fields.
	'Don't you worry, master,' said Sam, 'I won't let no one beat you this
time, and that's a fact.'  Frodo srewed up his courage and set after
them, to what doom he knew not.
	Suddenly, as they drew nearer to the farm-house, a terrific groaning
and grating broke out, and a loud voice was shouting, 'Twig!  Branch!
Elm!  Come on, lads!'
	The hobbits stopped dead and very soon the gate opened and three huge
logs came rolling out into the lane and dashed towards the travellers,
barking fiercely.  They took no notice of Pipsqueak but two of them
cornered Sam and looked at him in a way that can only be described as
woodenly.  The largest and feircest of the logs halted in front of
Frodo, bristling and growling in a deep timbre.
	Through the gate came the largest man any of the hobbits ever saw.
'Hallo!  Hallo!  And what may you be wanting?' he asked.
	'Good afternoon, Mr Delving.' Said Pipsqueak.
	'The farmer looked at him closely. 'That's Maggot to you, master
Pipsqueak - Mr Paragraph  Took, I should say!' he cried with relief. 
'It's been a long while since I saw you about these parts.  It's a good
thing I recognised you; I was about to set my logs on you after the
queer vistor I had this morning.'
	'Who would that be, Mr Moggot?' asked Frodo.
	'You didn't see him?  He left not half and hour ago.  All dressed in
Black he was and as foul smelling a customer as you could hope to meet. 
Came riding right through my poppies, he did, and right up to my door
bold as you please. "This path don't lead no where' I said to him, 'your
best way is straight back to the road.'
	'I'm looking for Baggins, ' he hissed at me.  
	'Who are you?' says I.
	'Ummmmm.....'
	'Your name's "M"?'
	'yeeeessss, that's right, my name;'s M.  Now will you tell me if
Baggins comes?  I will bring gold!'  he said.
	'Oh no, you won't,' I said.  'You'll bugger of  back the way you came
and double quick!  You can use the path this time.'  I set the logs onto
him but he struck a match and they shied away even as he stormed out
right over my poppies again!  Now then, Pipsqueak, who're your
companions?"
	'Well, this is Sam and that's Frodo Baggins.' said Pipsqueak.
	'Well, if that isn't queerer than ever.  You best come inside.'  said
maggot and waved his arm for them to follow him.
	Later, they all passed the news while waiting for Mrs Maggot to finish
preparing dinner.  Frodo and Sam learned much about Mr Maggot and his
doings.  He told them that the guard logs were given to him by his
brother who lived in the enchanted part of the old forest (or 100 acre
wood as it is known in latter days) and told them also of his dealings
with the Elves and their lust for the distillation made from his poppies
known as Morofeen that brought Mr Maggot most of his business these
days.
	'Haven't seen much of old Bombadil in a long time tough,' Maggot said,
'lives in the old forest, too, he does.  Used to buy my mushrooms by the
bushel-full, but now with all the ill news and all, I can hardly push
off  my special 'shrooms to the Hobbit teens down Bucklebelt way."
	Then the table was set with all the hobbits could eat, and the
centerpiece was a large bowl of steamed mushrooms.
	'I'm sure our master Frodo still has a liking for mushrooms, I
daresay,' jibed Maggot.
	'How did you...'
	'Oh, I remember you all-right, Mr Baggins!'  A cough from Sam drew
attention.
	'I'm afraid Sam has heard about your beating me and is a little wary of
you, Mr Maggot.' put in Frodo quickly, secretly waving Sam into closing
his flick-knife.
	'Well, I'm sorry I beat your master, Sam, but he oughtn't have theived
my mushrooms.  Least of all those kind.  Only for special customers I
grow them.  Cost me a bundle, your Mr Frodo did, and right sick he would
have been, too, if  he'd've eaten them.  No, these mushrooms are better
for you and me!'  said Maggot digging another spoonfull of buttery
fungus onto his plate.

	After a respite and a further dinnner and another respite, Mr Maggot
offered to take the travellers to the Bucklbelt ferry in his cart to
avoid any strangers waiting to waylay them on the road.  When all was
prepared and the cart loaded, it was well after dark and Frodo worried
they might miss the last ferry and Mobster both.  But his fears were
eased when after the hobbits climbed aboard the cart and were hidden
under a tarpaulin, Mr Maggot lifted mightliy on the two levers and set
off at a great pace down the road.  They were bumped and bruised as the
cart's single wheel endeavored to find every crack and rock in the road,
or so it seemed to Frodo.
	To break the agony of their journey, Frodo slipped on the ring and
called in a cooing voice, 'Ohhhhh  Saaaammmm. Sammy Sammy
Sammm-Saammmm..'
	"Now cut that out, Mister Frodo!  It not funny trying to get me all hot
and bothered just so's you can laugh at me, and that's a fact!'  Sam
spat indignantly.
	'Oh, Sam, I'm only having you on.  No need to be upset.' said Frodo.
	'Well as long as you're not trying to have it off with me, we'll get
along just fine, and that's a fact!'
	'Do you end all your sentences with "and that's a fact"?' asked
Pipsqueak.
	'I  don't know what you mean, Mister Pipsqueak, and that - '  the
hobbits rolled with laughter for the rest of their trip.

	An hour later they felt a sharp bump as Mr Maggot dropped his load
heavily.  They could hear him whispering to someone on the road.
	'Don't you come a step nearer, missy!  Who are you and what do you
want?'  There were sounds of a struggle and then a sharp high-pitched
yell followed by the sound of something large being dropped into the
river.  Soon, Mr Maggot opened the make-shift cover concealing the
hobbits and bade them get out.
	'What happened, Mr Maggot?' Asked a very worried Frodo.
	'Well, there was this queer looking lady in the road holding up the
brightest sword ever I saw.  I went up to her and her face was painted
all green and brown like.  She's an elf if ever I saw one, but why she
looked so fearsome, I do not know.  Anyway, she takes a swing at me with
her sword, but missed her mark, so I gave her a shove just to learn her
who her betters are, but I shoves to hard and wouldn't you know -
straight over the side of the Bridge she drops right in the water.  I
looked for her and thought of calling you all out to help me, but she
disappeared just as any frog might do.  No sign of her now, though.'
	As he was finishing his tale, the sound of hoof-beats approached and
they all were relieved to see Mobster riding up across the bridge to
meet them.
	'There, you are, Frodo! ' he cried 'I was worried when you didn't
arrive by nightfall, so I came looking for you.  Hallo, Mr Msggot!'
	'Good Ev'nin to you, master Mobster!  Well, I'll leave you all now and
get myself home.  I hope you'll stop travelling and settle down, Mr
Frodo, now you're here with us.'
	'Thank you,' said Frodo, 'and thanks for all your kindness.'
	'Well,' he said after Maggot had gone a fair distance, 'What are we
waiting for?  Let's get to the ferry.'
	'Begging your pardon, Mr Frodo, sir,'  said Sam, 'It seems to me we
could cross just as well by this here bridge, if you take my meaning,'
the hobbits' blank expressions showed they clearly did not.  'Why can't
we just cross here the way Mr Mobster did and save ourselves some time
and maybe trouble of another sort?  We'd be a dead target for that
elf-maid - or whatever she was - us riding on the water, and that's a
....."  again Pipsqueak and Frodo howled with laughter and Mobster lead
the way down the side of the bridge to where the ferry was tethered.
Chapter 5  A Conspiracy Undressed


   "Well," said Mobster, as the laughter subsided, "we'd 
best be going ourselves.  I'm looking forward to a meal 
and a pint of ale."  Across the river the hobbits could 
see the cheerful glow of neon lights blinking in the 
windows of Brandy Hall.

   Long ago, Gorhendad Oldbuck (Mobster's great-great-great-
grandfather, his great-great-uncle, or his third cousin once 
removed, depending on which branch of the family tree you 
trace) was the town drunk of Bywater.  People called him all 
kinds of names--Drunkenbuck, Alebuck, and the like--but the 
name that stuck was Brandybuck.  Unfortunately for him, he 
lived at the time of the Shire's great experiment with 
prohibition.  Unhappy with the dry state of affairs, he moved 
across the Brandywine River and set up his own little country, 
where the alcohol flowed freely.  Pretty soon, the greater 
portion of the Shire's population was packed into a small strip 
of land between the River and the Forest.  The mayor of Michel 
Delving finally admitted defeat and repealed prohibition.  Most 
hobbit folk returned to the four farthings, but Brandybuck and 
his family had set up a nice home in Bucklebeltland, so they 
stayed behind.  To this day, Bucklebeltland is still known for 
it's cavalier attitude towards the Shire's laws (making it the 
perfect place for Frodo to hide out from tax laws and bill 
collectors), and also for the fine quality of its many pubs.

   As the ferry-boat moved away from the shore, Sam peered 
uneasily at the darkly swirling water, convinced that an armed 
elf-princess would jump up and bonk him on the nose.  Knowing 
the Bucklebeltlanders' reputation, he wasn't sure that he liked 
the idea of taking a boat piloted by Mobster (after all, Frodo's 
parents Gordo and Primadonna had died in an accident involving 
drinking and boating).  "Um, about that bridge," he offered, 
"couldn't that Black Rider fellow just ride across and attack 
us on the other side?"
   "Samwise, my butt," grumbled Mobster to himself, "Samfool 
is more like it."  Aloud he answered, "It's clearly posted that 
you have to take boats eastbound, and since this is the last boat, 
we'll be safe."
   Peering into the murk, Sam could just make out a dark figure 
walking around on the west bank.  The figure moved towards the 
bridge, but noticing a sign it turned dejectedly and disappeared 
into the night.
   "Here we are," declared Mobster as the ferry pulled into its 
slip.  "Coming, Sam?"  Looking around, Sam realized that Pipsqueak 
and Frodo had already scrambled ashore.  "C'mon, Sam, Crickhollow 
is just around the corner and Fatty's getting dinner on."

   Entering Crickhollow, Frodo could tell that his friends had taken 
great pains to set it up just like his old home at Bag End.  All of 
his posters were already up on the walls, his fish were swimming happily 
in an aquarium set up in the corner, and they had even left a pile of 
his dirty laundry beside the T.V.  He felt ashamed that they'd gone to 
all of this work and he was going to have to leave them.
   "Dinner smells great," said Pipsqueak to Fatty, who was just coming 
out of the kitchen, "but after sleeping under a tree last night I need 
to wash up first.  It's bath time."
   "Which order shall we go in," said Frodo.  "Smartest first, or cutest 
first?  You'll be last either way, Master Pipsqueak."
   "No fear!" said Merry, "There are two tubs back there.  You're left 
with the shower, though, Sam.  In a class-based society such as this you 
really can't expect a servant-boy like you to enjoy the same luxuries as 
your betters."
   As the three travelers filed back to the washroom, Sam was muttering 
something about ". . . first one up against the wall when the revolution 
comes."  Soon, though, the sound of splashing and wallowing was mixed 
with the sound of Pipsqueak's favorite bathing song.

   Rubber Ducky, you're the one,
   You make bathtime lots of fun,
   Rubber Ducky, I'm awfully fond of you;

   (woh woh, bee doh!)

   Rubber Ducky, joy of joys,
   When I squeeze you, you make noise!
   Rubber Ducky, you're my very best friend, it's true!

   (doo doo doo doooo, doo doo)

   Rubber Ducky, you're so fine
   And I'm lucky that you're mine
   Rubber ducky, I'm awfully fond of -
   Rubber ducky, I'd like a whole pond of -
   Rubber ducky I'm awfully fond of you!

There was a terrific flush, and a shout of "Whoa!" from Sam as he was scalded 
in the shower.  It wasn't long before all three were drawn back to the dining 
room by the smell of Fatty's roasted mushrooms.

   Now, if you've ever met a hobbit, you know that they love to eat.  For such 
little guys, they can pack away a lot of food, which is why you'd better
be sure 
you've a well-stocked larder before inviting a hobbit home for the weekend.  
Above all, though, hobbits loved mushrooms.  Hobbit gourmands had identified 
seven hundred and thirty eight varieties of edible mushrooms, and from the 
look of his waistline, you could tell that Fatty was familiar with them all.  
He'd prepared a sumptuous six course feast based completely around fungus.  
He started with a nice little appetizer of mushrooms stuffed with cheese, 
followed by a salad of morels, stir fried shitakes, grilled portabellos, and 
roasted truffles.  He ended it all with mushroom ice cream, but curiously 
everyone decided they were full at that point, and pulled their chairs around 
the fireplace to talk.
   "Well, I'm not sure exactly how to say this . . ." started Frodo when 
Pipsqueak interrupted.
   "Years from now," he began, "when someone writes the story of our
adventures, 
no one is going to want to dwell on this scene.  They'll want to move
ahead into 
the action, so let's not draw this out.  Let's just pretend that you
already know 
that we know all about the Ring . . . "
   "But how?" protested Frodo.
   "Do you think we're idiots?" Mobster piped in.  "You'd never have a chance 
with Pipsqueak's cousin Cassiopiea without magical help.  You're my
friend, man, 
but I've got to say that you've got a face only a mother could love.  A
blind mother."
   "Anyway," continued Pipsqueak, "let's just pretend that we've already
told you 
we're going with you, you've protested, and we've insisted.  Sam's nice
and all, 
but let's face it, he's a bit of a stick in the mud.  Adventures will be a
lot more 
fun with Mobster and I along."
   "You are a set of scoundrels!~ cried Frodo.  "Bless you one and all." 
They all 
danced around Frodo (not that there's anything wrong with that) and Mobster and 
Pipsqueak started a song they'd apparently composed for the occasion.

   Farewell we call to hearth and hall!
   To hobbit lasses one and all.
   To Cassiopiea, Mary Jane,
   To Beth, and Ruth, and sweet Lorraine.

   To the wafflefoot twins with kisses sweet,
   To all the gals with those sexy bare furry feet.
   Someday we'll return to this corner of the world,
   And maybe even Sam will meet a nice hobbit girl.

   For now we're off on a quest of sorts,
   To meet the women found in exotic ports.
   We might find elf-maids with pointy ears,
   Or even kiss dwarf girls (after eight or nine beers).

   We must be gone, we must be gone.
   We leave before the crack of dawn!

   "Actually, guys, if it's okay with you, could we wait until about nine 
or so?" asked Frodo.  "I'm exhausted."
   "Well, of course we'll sleep in.  'Nine' just doesn't rhyme.  'We must 
be gone, we must be gone, we leave before the crack of nine'?  Old Bilbo 
would have never let me get by with a song like that," said Mobster.  "I've 
got it all set up.  We'll wake up at nine, Fatty will make up a nice breakfast 
of mushroom omelets, Sam will pack all of our bags while we have a nice 
leisurely smoke, and we'll be gone by noon.  Our route takes us hiking through 
the Old Forest."
   Fatty suddenly went pale.  "Wait a minute!  No one told me anything about 
the Forest!  I can't go in there, I'm afraid of trees!"
   "You're afraid of trees?  What kind of pansy are you?" demanded Frodo.  
"If you can't handle a few trees, you're not going to do us much good on 
the road.  Maybe you should stay behind and tell Gandalf where to find us."
   Fatty seemed relieved that everyone agreed to this plan.  After some 
final preparations, they all settled down to bed.
   After tossing and turning for some time, Frodo finally settled down 
into an uneasy sleep.  Eventually he fell into a vague dream in which he 
seemed to be looking out of a high window over a dark sea of tangled trees.  
When he turned away from the window to face the classroom, he noticed he 
wasn't wearing any clothes.  Just then, the teacher started to pass out 
an exam that he hadn't studied for.  In a panic, he woke up.
The Old Forest

    Frodo woke suddenly.  It was still dark in the room, and he
felt almost as if he were falling.  A moment later he hit the
floor.  Blearily he looked up to see the light of a candle flame
burning in the doorway.  'What?  What is it?' said Frodo, still
shaken and bewildered.
    Out of the fire there spoke a voice, 'What is it!' cried
Mobster.  'I have been pounding on your door for five minutes.
It's nearly ten, Fatty's eaten half your breakfast and we must be
leaving soon.  You'll have to make do with the scraps while I get
the ponies ready.'
    It was, of course, not so bad as all that.  Fatty had prepared
more than enough for a hobbit twice Frodo's size and there was
plenty left.  So Frodo had a nice breakfast with eggs and sausages
while the others finished preparations for the journey ahead.
    Soon after twelve o'clock the five hobbits were ready to
start.  Frodo was still yawning.  Mobster went in front leading an
overburdened pony, and took his way along a path that went through
a small grove behind the house, and then trampled across several
fields.
    In a shed they found their ponies; four sturdy beasts of the
kind loved by hobbits.  They mounted, and were soon riding along
under the midday sun.  Ahead of them loomed the Hedge.
    'How are you going to get through the Hedge?' asked Fatty.
    'I will show you!' said Mobster.  He turned left along the
Hedge, and they came to a ramp leading down.  A passage had been
dug into the earth and walled with brick, forming a tunnel leading
under the Hedge and into the Forest on the far side.
    Here Fatty stopped, quailing at the sight of the trees.  'Good-
bye friends!' he said.  'I wish you were not going into the
Forest.  I'm afraid there won't be anyone to rescue you, but good
luck to you.'
    'Tell Gandalf to go along the East Road; we shall soon be back
on it ourselves.' said Frodo.  They waved and disappeared into the
tunnel.
    They passed a gate on the far side and Mobster locked it behind
them.
    'Well!' said Mobster.  'We have left the Shire, and are now on
the edge of the Old Forest.'
    'Are the stories true?' asked Pipsqueak, casting a glance back
to the tunnel.
    'I don't know which stories you mean,' answered Mobster.  'I
don't believe those old bogey stories such as Fatty's nurses used
to tell him.  Goblins and wolves and walking trees!  No, I don't
think so, but the Forest is queer. Sometimes you'll feel someone
watching you, but when you look about there's no one there.  There
are queer things living deep in the Forest, and in the downs on the
far side and someone makes tracks amongst the trees.  Not far from
this tunnel there should be a path which will take us northeast
through the Forest.  Due east would put us onto the Downs and south
would take us to the Witherwander River which starts out on the
Downs and joins the Brandywine in the south of the Forest.  No
hobbit has ever charted its full course.  We don't want to go THAT
way!  The Witherwander valley is the worst part of the whole wood -
full of bogs and swamps, sinking sands and unfriendly creatures.'

    The hobbits now left the Hedge and rode up another ramp to the
floor of the Forest.  The trees were thick about them almost
immediately, trunks of innumerable sizes and shapes:  straight or
bent, twisted, leaning, squat or slender, smooth or gnarled and
branched or branchless, clustered or scattered, tall, short,
lightning scarred, intertwined, infested, bewebbed, mossy, dark,
damp, shimmering, peeling, vine covered, young or old, flowering,
deciduous, coniferous, fruit bearing, creaking, cracked, hollow,
budding and dying, burned, slimy, shaggy, scaley, green, grey,
brown, and, well, just a very lot of different kinds of trees.
    They went on for some time, the ponies carefully picking their
way through the twisted and interlacing roots.  The ground rose
steadily, and as they went forward it seemed as if the trees became
taller, darker, thicker, danker, and a great many other ominous
adverbs as well.  They could catch only occasional glimpses of the
Sun through the thick trees overhead, and each time they did they
seemed to have veered somewhat off course and would have to turn
again to the northeast.  After an hour or two the trees closed
overhead completely, wrapping them in a twilight gloom that left
them guessing at their direction and able to do little more than
move steadily forward.
    The afternoon was wearing away when they stumbled into a deep
fold in the ground.  It was so steep and overhung that it proved
impossible to climb out of, in either direction, without leaving
their ponies behind.  As that would require carrying their own
food, and rather alot of it at that, it was completely out of the
question.  All they could do was to follow the fold - downwards.
The ground grew soft, and in places boggy, and soon they found
themselves following a brook that trickled and babbled through a
weedy bed.
    There was not yet any sign of a path, and the others began to
wonder if Mobster were not completely lost.  Pipsqueak suddenly
felt that he could not bear it any longer, and without warning let
out a shout.  'Oi! Ai! Ee!' he cried.  No one was quite sure why.
'You don't have any idea where you are going, do you!'
    Mobster shot him a venomous look, a glare that would have
warned any of his business associates against further words.  'I
should not shout if I were you,' said Mobster.
    Pipsqueak, however, was undeterred.  'It has not taken you long
to lose us!'  Mobster's face became grim and he nudged his pony
forward with blood in his eyes.  It might have gone badly for
Pipsqueak then, but just as Mobster was drawing close Sam let out a
whistle and pointed ahead.
    'Look, isn't that an opening up ahead?' asked Sam.

    A short distance ahead the gully came to an end and led quite
suddenly out of the gloom.  The stream flowed down into a dark
river of brown water, bordered with ancient willows, arched over
with willows, blocked with fallen willows, flecked with thousands
of faded willow leaves, and otherwise heavily bewillowed.  The late
afternoon sun shone golden through the break in the trees,
illuminating a faint footpath running along the bank of the river.
    'Well, I know precisely where we are' said Mobster, speaking
quickly before any more comments about his navigational abilities
might be made.  'This is the River Witherwander!  We have strayed
just a little from our path.'  Pipsqueak looked about to protest,
but Mobster spoke on unheeding.  'Perhaps there is some truth to
those old stories about the trees moving of their own accord after
all.  They could have cut off our path and herded us here.  That
must be it.'
    Seeing nothing else for it, the hobbits filed out and Mobster
led them down to the riverside.  There they stopped to water the
ponies and take a brief rest.  The long ride had worn them down and
the soft grass beneath the willow trees was a welcome change of
seating as they refilled their own water bottles.  They yawned,
lightly at first, weariness seeming to creep over them now that
they could take a break at last.
    Frodo felt his chin go down and his head nod.  Off to his side
Mobster and Pipsqueak had wandered over to a great knotted old
willow and were resting against it.  Sam had stopped, pretty much
where his pony had, and sat blinking stupidly about himself.
    Frodo felt that some cool water might help revive him and
wandered towards the riverbank, half in a daze.  He did not even
know he had reached the riverbank until he tripped over a root of
the old willow and fell headfirst into the water with a great
splash.  He broke back to the surface a moment later, gasping and
sputtering.  'Help!  Help!', he cried, as he attempted
ineffectually to reach the shore.  As the slow current carried him
away Frodo could see his friends half stirring in response to his
cries, but then settling back into weary sleep.
    Choking now and fearing he would follow his parents into a
watery grave Frodo thought he dimly heard a voice as he drifted out
of sight and conciousness: a deep glad voice, singing carelessly
and happily:

            Hey doll!  merry doll!  ring a ding dial-O!
            Ring a ding!  hop along!  follow the willow!
            Tom Bom, jolly Tom, Tom Bombadildo

    With a last gasp of effort Frodo kicked himself to the surface
of the water and cried out once more before sinking beneath the
surface.  He felt the cold darkness settle over him, and knew no
more.

    Until a moment later when he was pulled coughing and sputtering
from the water by strong hands.  He hung helplessly, spitting up
water and a tragically large portion of his breakfast, before he
could begin to breathe normally again and get his first clear look
at his rescuer.

    It was a man, or so he seemed.  At any rate he was too large
and heavy for an ordinary hobbit, if not quite tall enough for one
of the Big People.  He had a long brown beard; his eyes were blue
and bright, and his face was red as a ripe apple.  He wore yellow
boots, a blue coat and a battered hat with a tall crown and a long
blue feather stuck in the band.  In his free hand (Frodo was
dangling precariously from the other) he carried on a large leaf as
on a tray a pile of white water-lillies and a small doll.  Frodo
found himself noting that the doll looked much like the man
himself, save that its hat seemed to sport a peacock feather rather
than a kingfisher.

    'Whoa! steady there!' cried the old man, and Frodo stopped
squirming as if he had been struck stiff.  'Now, my little fellow.
Where be you a-going to, breathing like a fish?  What's the matter
here then?  Do you know who I am?  I'm Tom Bombadil.'
    'My friends and I were lost.  I fell in the water and they all
went to sleep.  I could have drowned!' cried Frodo breathlessly.

    'What?' shouted Tom Bombadil, leaping up in the air and giving
Frodo quite a jolt.  'Friends napping when help is being needed?
Let's go and see this.'  He set Frodo down and they made their way
back up the path to where the other hobbits were sleeping.
    Tom let out a great laugh and sang a bit of his nonsense rhyme,
though Frodo looked fit to boil.  The three hobbits woke and sat
up, rubbing thier eyes at this strange apparition.
    'Frodo!' cried Sam, seeing his master all wet and bedraggled.
'What happened?'
    'What happened?' yelled Frodo with some heat.  'I nearly
drowned while you three had a nice nap.'
    The three jumped up, all trying to explain at once;  'We were
bespelled!', 'The sleep...', 'I just closed my eyes for a moment!',
'Why'd you go fall in the water anyway...'
    Looking around Sam suddenly pointed at the great grey willow
under which they had all slept.  'That... that there willow, it
must be one of those walking trees.  I'd bet it put us all to sleep
I would!'  The others gaped and then nodded quickly in agreement.
    Tom regarded the hobbits with great amusement and laughed
again.  'Oh, the old 'willow-man' was it?  Well, that's as may be,
but Tom Bombadil must be going.  You should all come home with me.
The table is laden with yellow cream, honeycomb, and white bread
and butter.  Goldberry is waiting.  You follow me as quick as you
are able.'  With that he gave a beckoning wave and went hopping and
dancing along the path eastward, still singing loudly and
nonsensically.

      Hey!  Come merry doll!  daring doll!  My darling!
      Hop along little friends, up the Witherwander.
      Tom's going on ahead to get the ponies fodder.
      Goldberry will make the beds and set the board,
      With bread and honey and sweet delights, the River daughter.
      Hey now!  merry doll!  We'll be waiting for you!

    They all stared after him for a long moment, but the promise of
food and good beds would draw any hobbit.  And so they started
after him, still arguing amongst themselves;
    'You know, now that I think of it... that willow root that
tripped me DID seem to move of it's own accord.'
    'I think he was an entwife', opined Pipsqueak.
    'A what?'
    'An entwife.  Old Bilbo told me a story about them... no, not
one of THOSE stories.'

    Up ahead the trees parted and a house lay beneath the dark
shapes of the Barrow-downs.  Golden light spilled out over the
threshold and they hurried forward.
CHAPTER EIGHT:  FOG ON THE BARROW-DOWNS

  That night they heard no noises.  But either in his dreams or out of
them, he could not tell which, Frodo heard a sweet singing running in
his mind:  a song that seemed to come like a pale light behind a grey
rain-curtain, and growing stronger to turn the veil all to glass and
silver, until at last it was rolled back, and a far green country opened
before him under a swift sunrise.

  The vision melted, and Frodo awoke feeling a rather depressing sense
of predestination.  *Everything is fixed, and you can't change it,*
echoed the ethereal chorus in his memory.

  "You're a fool, Frodo Baggins," muttered Frodo, shaking his head and
looking about for some sign of breakfast.  Instead, Sam was immediately
at his side, stroking Frodo's hand, kissing Frodo's hand, and sucking
Frodo's fingers, as was his wont.  "Good boy, Sam," praised Frodo,
tossing Sam a scooby-snack.  "How about some breakfast, then?"

  After breakfast, the four Hobbits made ready to say farewell to their
host.  Their quiet ponies were almost frisky, shimmying and shagging
restlessly.  Tom came out of the house and waved his doll and danced
upon the doorstep, bidding the Hobbits to go speedily and reminding them
to beware of the dread Barrow-wights that haunted the Downs at night.
"They're always after my lucky charms!" he explained.

  Duly warned, the Hobbits thanked Tom for his advice and trotted their
panting ponies away, in haste to be out of hearing range before Tom
started singing again.  They rode off along a path that wound away from
behind the house, and went slanting up and over a high, green hill.
They had just dismounted to lead their ponies up the steep slope, when
suddenly Frodo stopped.

  "Goldberry!" he cried.  "My fair lady, clad all in terrycloth!  We
have never said farewell to her, nor seen her since that evening!"  He
was so distressed that he turned back.

  Morrie rolled his eyes.  "No wonder he's still a virgin," he muttered.
  "What?" exclaimed Pipsqueak, looking sharply at Morrie.

  "Am not," shot back Frodo.

  "Are too," Morrie snidely insisted.

  "Now see here--" began Sam, but Pipsqueak cut him off.

  "Whatever do you mean, Morrie?  What about Cassiopiea,
and...well...and...well, what about Cassiopiea?"

  "For the love of Elbereth!" implored Frodo.  "Please, you two, just
drop it!"

  "Yes, I hear you're quite adept at *dropping* it, cousin," sneered
Morrie.  He raised an eyebrow and glanced significantly at Pipsqueak.

  Pipsqueak gasped.  "You mean--?"  He glanced at Frodo, who at the
moment could easily have been mistaken for a poppy in Farmer Maggot's
fields, and grinned back at Morrie.  "Go on!" he said, laughing.

  "It's true," said Morrie.  "'Limp as last night's noodles left out in
the rain,' is how your cousin Cassie put it."

  "Well, then, whyever did she keep--ohhh, the power of the Ring, I
suppose."

  "Yes, poor Cassie.  Apparently the Ring only bestows the power to
seduce; the power to perform is up to the wearer."

  "Enough!" cried Frodo, his face contorted in anguish.  "All right!  I
admit it!  I can't--*perform* with a lass.  I don't know why; it's not
that I haven't tried.  Do you have any idea how humiliating it is to be
the only fifty-year-old virgin in all of Hobbiton?"

  "The Shire."

  "What!" snapped Frodo defensively.

  "The Shire," Morrie drolly repeated, smirking.  "As far as I know,
you're the only fifty-year-old virgin in the whole of the Shire."

  "Including Bucklebeltland," suggested Pipsqueak helpfully.

  "For that matter, Frodo, you're probably the only virgin over *thirty*
in all the Shire--"

  "Including Buckle--"

  "I take your point!"  Frodo stalked off up and over the hill.

  "Now see what you've done," reproved Sam, jabbing a finger into
Pipsqueak's chest.

  "Sam, please," sniffed Morrie, swatting Sam's hand away from
Pipsqueak.  "It's not proper to treat your betters in so familiar a
fashion."

  "Never you mind 'proper,' Mr. Moribund, sir.  You and Mr. Paragraph
here made poor Mr. Frodo feel bad, and I'll not be standing for it, and
that's a fact!"

  Morrie and Pipsqueak burst into laughter.  "Well, then," leered
Morrie, as Sam scowled and stamped his foot in protest, "why don't you
go find poor Mr. Frodo and make him feel *gooood*,
Sammy-Sammy-Sam-Saaammmm?"

  "Maybe I'll do just that," retorted Sam, who wouldn't recognize
subtext if it smacked him upside the head.  As if to further prove the
point, he shouted, "Coming, Mr. Frodo!  Coming!" while Morrie and
Pipsqueak fell to the grass, rolling and laughing hysterically.

***

  Damn the lot of them.

  Frodo grinned to himself.  It sounded so fine, he said it aloud:
"*Damn* the lot of them!"  (To say that Frodo was socially retarded
would be somewhat of an understatement.)

  Damn them all.  He ought to cast them all to the dread Barrow-wights
and invite the beasts to have at their lucky charms.  Frodo imagined his
so-called friends lying dead and dismembered, while he himself escaped,
alive and free.  Gandalf would admit there had been nothing else he
could do.

  Just then a familiar, low voice interrupted his sadistic reverie:
"Mr. Frodo, sir?"

  Not Sam, amended Frodo.  Morrie and Pipsqueak, without a regret, but
not Sam.  "Yes, Sam," he said, turning and smiling fondly; for suddenly
it struck him that he was, indeed, very fond of the young Hobbit.
  Sam blushed and lowered his gaze.  "Aw, Mr. Frodo, I was thinking,
maybe, you could use a bit of cheering up."  He took Frodo's hand into
his own, held it up to his cheek.  "You always do like it when I hold
your hand," he said shyly.

  "I do, indeed," said Frodo, caressing Sam's cheek with his fingertips.
"However did you get in the habit of doing it, anyway?"

  "Oh, I don't know, sir."  Sam shrugged, and slipped his mouth over the
nearest fingertip.  "Maybe it's just you have such beautiful hands."

  A shadow fell over Frodo's face.  "Morrie said I'm ugly," he said,
looking away.

 "You never were," protested Sam.  "Why, you're the fairest Hobbit in
all the Shire, as beautiful as any Elf."

  "Really?" Frodo glanced back doubtfully at Sam.

  "Really and truly, sir.  Mr. Morrie's just jealous, on account that he
looks like the wrong end of a pony with a bad case of the Bywater
blasts."

  Frodo burst out laughing.  "You always could make me laugh, dear Sam,"
he said, leaning against Sam.

  "Aw."  Again the color rose in Sam's face.  "He just knows he can't
hold a candle to you, and that's--"  He stopped short, suddenly
self-conscious.

  "A fact?"  Frodo's eyes shone brightly at Sam.  Sam glanced up at him,
and nodded.  "Fact is, sir, I always wondered how it was so handsome a
Hobbit never did wed--oh, I'm sorry, sir!" cried Sam, aghast.

  Frodo winced, but patted Sam's hand reassuringly, bestowing a light
kiss upon it for good measure.  "It's all right, Sam," he said.  "I seem
to be cursed, doomed by forces beyond my control never to know the bliss
of conjugal relations."  Sighing wistfully, Frodo lifted his eyes to the
hills; whence would come his help?

  "Well, come along, Sam."  Frodo looked back to Sam, and gave him a
shadowed smile.  "I suppose we'd better find Morrie and Pipsqueak and be
heading out of here before it gets dark.  They may be asses, but they
are my cousins, all the same."

  "And they may prove useful yet, sir," added Sam, walking hand in hand
with Frodo back over the hill to where they had left Morrie and
Pipsqueak.

***

  Riding over the hills, and eating their fill, the warm sun and the
scent of turf, lying a little too long after lunch to linger over
bottles of elderberry wine, sucked drop by drop from slender fingers:
these things are, perhaps, enough to explain what happened.  However
that may be, the Hobbits woke suddenly and uncomfortably from a sleep
they never meant to take.  Extricating their entwined limbs, they sprang
to their feet in alarm:  The setting sun throbbed crimson as it sank
below the horizon.  *Red sky at night, sailor's delight*, hissed the
wind, chilling the companions to their very bones.

  In defiance of all principles of meteorology, known and unknown, a
thick fog rolled in from nowhere, quickly enshrouding the Hobbits and
isolating them one from another.

  "Sam?" called Frodo shakily.  "Sam?  Morrie?  Pipsqueak?"

  He thought he heard a dim, answering call of *Frodo* but he could not
be sure.  "Sam?  Sam, where are you?  Morrie, Pipsqueak?  Please answer
me!  Where are you?"  Blindly he stumbled through the fog and the dark,
his curls plastered damply against his brow.

  *Hey sailorrrrr....*

  Frodo halted.  "Sam?" he queried in a quavering voice.

  *Hey, sailor, where are you going?*

  "Who are you?" demanded Frodo.  "And what have you done with Sam?"
Falling silent, he waited, but there was no answer, only the slither of
the wind beneath the fog.

  "Sam!  Where *are* you?" Frodo cried out miserably.

***

  There was no reply.  He was suddenly aware that it was getting very
cold, and the wind was growing stronger, dispersing the mists as
improbably quickly as they had descended.  A glance showed him that he
was now standing on a high hilltop, which he must have climbed in his
frantic chase, which would explain why his clothes and hair were soaked
with perspiration.  Out of the east a biting wind was blowing.  To his
right there loomed against the westward stars a dark black shape.  A
great barrow stood there.

  "Where are you?" he cried again, both angry and afraid.

  "Here!" said a voice deep and mellow and strangely seductive.  "I am
waiting for you!"

  "No!" said Frodo; but he did not run away.  Trembling, he looked up to
see a tall, dark, and handsome figure silhouetted against the stars.  It
leaned over him, and Frodo felt his knees grow weak.  He thought he saw
an appraising glimmer in the two pale eyes gazing intently down into his
own, and he stood transfixed, silently yearning for he knew not what.
Then strong, manly hands seized him, and a body hard as iron bore
against him, pressing him insistently to the ground, and he remembered
no more.

***

  He awoke feeling curiously sticky, and, even more curiously, strangely
satiated.  He had no desire to move, but was content to lie as he found
himself:  naked, on the ground, his clothes scattered around him, a
crushed cigarette butt smoldering in a bare patch of dirt.  Languidly
Frodo reached over and twisted the cigarette butt into the ground,
snuffing it.

  Hmm.  He'd never been one for smoking, but now he felt a sudden and
powerful craving for a good pipe full of weed.  Damn.  Frodo supposed
that he would have to bestir himself to find where his companions had
got to; Sam alone could be counted on to pack half a year's crop of leaf
whenever he undertook so much as a trip to the post office.  Hopefully,
thought Frodo, he hadn't smoked it all by now.

  Groaning, he stretched and sat up and set about reclothing himself,
pausing to wipe off the curiously sticky night dew which had condensed
upon certain regions of his skin.  He looked about in vain for his pony.
Double-damn.

  "Sam!  Morrie!  Pipsqueak!" called Frodo.  "Where are you?  Sam!
Morrie!  Pipsqueak!  Hullo!  Rise and shine!  Here comes the sun, and I
say, it's all right!"

  From the barrow emerged Sam, Morrie, and Pipsqueak, blinking, bemused,
and naked as the day they were born.  "Mr. Frodo?" murmured Sam, gazing
blearily in Frodo's direction.  "Mr. Frodo, I had the queerest dream."

  "Hm.  So did I," said Frodo, straining to hold back a wide grin.  "I
say, Sam, you wouldn't happen to have any pipeweed about you, would
you?"

  "Pipeweed?" repeated Sam.  "You, sir?  I mean, begging your pardon,
sir, but no, it's in my pack, on the pony--"  Sam snapped to, looked
about, as if only then becoming cognizant of their situation.  "Now
where in tarnation are those ponies, anyway?  And why am I standing here
in my birthday suit--why, and Mr. Pipsqueak--and Mr. Morrie, too!"

  "Don't fret, Sam; it suits you well," laughed Frodo.  Then Frodo
suddenly blushed, and wondered why.

  "Well, it doesn't suit me at all!" cried Pipsqueak indignantly.  "We
must find our ponies, and our packs.  Either that or you must lend us
some of your clothing, Frodo."

  "I haven't any to lend, except what I'm wearing," said Frodo.  "I am
afraid my pony has likewise wandered, and with it my pack."

  "Oh, this is terrible!" wailed Pipsqueak.  "We can't go walking to
Bree stark naked!"

  "Hm," said Morrie, pointedly regarding Pipsqueak's nether regions.
"Those of us with a little more to show off have no reason to be
embarrassed."

  "Even I am not lacking in that respect," Frodo observed.

  "Thank you very much, noble cousin."  Pipsqueak crossed his arms and
sulked.

  "Payback's a bitch," grunted Sam, thrusting his hips forward so to
better show off his considerable assets.

  "Now, Sam," chided Frodo teasingly, "there's no need to flaunt it.
Anyway, none of this is helping us to find the ponies; I suppose we'll
have to call on Tom Bombadil again."

  "Oh, no," groaned Pipsqueak.

  "Here."  Frodo reached into his pocket and produced a handkerchief.
"Cover up," he said, handing it to Pipsqueak.

  Pipsqueak glowered at him, but he took the handkerchief, all the same.
"Thank you," he sullenly muttered.  Meanwhile, Frodo cupped his hands
about his mouth and called out:

  Ho!  Tom Bombadil, Tom Bombadillo!
  The ground makes a cold bed, and stones a hard pillow!
  Our ponies have wandered!  Bring your help near
  So we can high-tail it out of here!

  And, sure as deus ex machina is a fantasy writer's best friend, came
the answering call:

  Old Tom Bombadil is a merry old fellow!
  There's simply no end to the things he does know!
  Come, ponies, and fly to your bareback riders!
  Bring backpacks with breeches to cover backsiders!

  Morrie and Pipsqueak exchanged erudite expressions of aesthetic angst,
but Sam was simply delighted.  "Sheer poetry," he sighed, beaming
blissfully.  Laughing and singing, Tom Bombadil greeted the Hobbits.
"Run naked in the grass, my merry friends, and let the light of day warm
heart and limb!  Run naked, run naked, I say!  Cast away that thin rag,"
he whipped the handkerchief from Pipsqueak's clutching hands, "and run
naked, I say!"

  A rather curious thing to exhort of grown men, one would think, yet
Frodo and Sam and Morrie and Pipsqueak followed Bombadil's directive
without question.  Frodo again cast his clothing aside, running about
nude with his friends under the morning sun because, we are given to
understand, it is the natural thing for Hobbits to be so carefree and
innocent and unashamed, even though heretofore we have been led to
believe that Shire Hobbits were quintessential starched-and-buttoned
Victorian Brits who were as likely as Queen Victoria herself to be found
cavorting naked in the grass.

  "And here are your ponies!" said Bombadil, as the ponies trotted gaily
over the crest of the hill behind him, each running to its respective
rider.  The Hobbits opened their packs and clothed themselves, while
Bombadil gave them directions to the road that would lead them to Bree.
"And in Bree you will find an old brothel called The Prancing Pony;
Barliman Butterball is its worthy keeper, and his buxom wife Bella the
fetching mistress of the house.  There you will find food and drink, and
a warm fire, and a warm wench or two to keep you the night; and the
morning will speed you on your way.  Be bold, but wary!  Keep gay your
hearts, and ride to meet your fortune!"  Then he turned and tossed up
his doll and caught it again, leaping and skipping and dancing away back
over the hill whence he had come.

  "Well, Mr. Frodo," remarked Sam, "I am sorry to take leave of Master
Bombadil, but I won't deny I'll be glad to see this brothel he spoke of.
I wonder if it'll be like the Green Dragon back home?  D'you suppose
they have Hobbit wenches, or only wenches of the Big Folk?"

  "There are Hobbits in Bree," said Morrie, "as well as Big Folk.  Take
your pick!  I myself have partaken of both varieties, with perfect
satisfaction."

  "Well, now, Mr. Frodo," Sam heartily exclaimed.  "This Prancing Pony
might just be the place to turn your luck for the better!  I daresay
you'll no longer be a virgin on the morrow."

  "Be that as it may," Frodo sharply hissed, "please, *please* watch
your tongues, and remember not to mention that I have never known a
woman in conjugal embrace!"

  "Oh, no, of course not, Mr. Frodo.  Right, Mr. Morrie?  Mr.
Pipsqueak?"

  "Oh, certainly.  Of course."  They snickered, and began to sing ribald
songs as they rode toward the soft, sultry red lights of Bree.
Chapter VII
In The House of Tom Bombadil.

Chapter 7

     The four hobbits stepped over the threshold and stood
still, gaping. In a chair sat a woman; she wore nothing more
than a bathrobe, her long yellow hair tangled in an unruly
mess. It was obvious from her tired look that this lady had
listened to more silly songs than was bearable. It was also
obvious that Tom had good taste where women were
concerned. The opposite wasn't certain at all.
      When she saw them she shrieked. "Ahh! You didn't tell
me you were bringing friends!" then promptly turned on her
alluring smile. "Come in! Laugh and be merry!" she said.
      Mobster gave her a humorless look. "Madam, I'm a
Brandybuck. We don't do 'merry'. "
      He disliked outsiders considering him or his extended
family as 'humorous' 'cute' or 'quaint'. It tended to be bad
for business.
      Frodo spoke. "Fair lady Goldberry! Now I know what
Bombadil was talking about when he said that you'll make
the boards and make the beds." then he stopped as he
realised that may have not sounded as well as he
intended.
      Her smile faded. "Oh, he said that, didn't he? I knew
I should have never left my mother. I admit her place was
rather watery, but this man..."
      "Fair lady!" said Frodo quickly, knowing that in a
domestic dispute the guests were also bound to suffer. "Tell
me, if it hasn't been discussed over and over again, who
is Tom Bombadil? Is he a Maia that went native? Is he
perhaps an authorial self-insertion? Is he Eru, God
Almighty?"
      Goldberry snorted.
      "Mainly, he's a very bad singer."

      Before long, they were all seated at the table, two
hobbits on each side, while at either end sat Goldberry and
Tom (whose insistence at being called Master threatened to
bring about a new domestic quarrel). The hobbits ate as
only famished hobbits can, and before the dinner's end,
Pipsqueak had to wrestle with Sam over the remnants of
a cake. The guests became suddenly aware that they were
all shouting at the top of their lungs.
      At last the table was cleared. Goldberry came and
wished them a good night.
      "Have peace now,' she said 'until the morning! And
heed no nightly noises - especially if they are coming
from our bedroom."
      Tom sat on a while beside them in silence and at
last Frodo spoke:
      "Did you hear me calling, To - eh.. Master, or was
it just chance that brought you at that moment?"
      "Nay, I didn't hear. I was too busy singing. And I was
too busy admiring this really beautiful doll of myself, since
I'm really as self-centered and self-absorbed as can be."
      With a glance at his friends, Frodo asked "Tell us about
the willow-man. What is he? And how can it be I never
heard of him before?"
      "No, don't!" said Mobster and Pipsqueak together
then looked embarrassed. "I mean it will give poor Frodo,
nightmares for sure." went on Mobster.
      Tom laughed, and after a couple of accusatory looks
among the hobbits, they all went to bed.

      Frodo dreamt that night of a pinnacle of stone on
top of which the figure of a man stood. Suddenly a shadow
like the shape of wings passed across the moon at which
the man shouted "YOU ARE NOT A BALROG!"
      Pipsqueak lay dreaming pleasantly, but suddenly he
woke - he still heard in the darkness the sound that had
disturbed his dream 'tip-tap, squeak'. Thinking someone
was calling his name, he stood up groggily. - the noise
seemed to come from Bombadil and Goldberry's room.
Tip-toeing he approached the half-open door and tried
to take a peep inside: Goldberry was hitting Tom over
the head with his own miniature while Tom said things
like "But, dearest--". Pipsqueak gave a grunt of disgust
and went back to bed.
      Goldberry looked up at the grunt. "Was he peepin'?"
      Tom glad at the small reprieve, rubbed his bruised
head. "No, I think he was Pipsqueak."
      It was the sound of Shirrifs coming that Mobster thought
he heard while asleep. But then he seemed to hear or remember
hearing: "Nothing passes doors or windows without a proper
warrant." He breathed deep and fell asleep again.
      As far as he could remember, Sam slept through the night
in deep content, if logs that chased and then happily savaged
their imperialistic masters are contented.

      Next day Tom told them many remarkable stories,
sometimes as if speaking the himself, sometimes looking
at them suddenly with a bright blue eye, (the other eye
had been mysteriously blackened during the previous
night). Often his voice would turn to song, and the
hobbits would simply shut their ears and pray it would
pass.
      After a couple of truly dull horror stories about the Old
Forest, suddenly Tom's talk left the wood and using a
convoluted course seemed to rest on the Downs. Tom
told them of the Barrow-wights who walked in the hollow
places always happily ready to provide a side adventure
for tired travelers.
      The hobbits shuddered. Even in the Shire the rumour
of the Barrow-wights and their liking for plotwise-insignificant
side-adventures had been heard. The did not make a tale
that any hobbit liked to listen to, since they mainly preferred
focused narratives. They (inevitably) lost the thread of his
tale.
      When they caught his words again they found that he
had now wandered into strange places beyond their
memory, waking thought or even their hallucinations,
into times when the world was carried on the back of a
turtle and the seas flowed straight down in an endless
waterfall; and still Tom went singing out into such times
as only ancient myths described, when people left the
doors unlocked at night, and even further back, when
those damn kids knew some proper respect for their
parents. Then suddenly he stopped, and they saw that
he nodded as if he had bored even himself to sleep.
      "Who are you, Master?" Frodo asked, sudden fear
in his voice.
      "Gnnngshm..?" Tom seemed to mumble and he
finally fell asleep with a good thump.

      After supper Goldberry once again hurried away
from the table, because Tom now seemed wide awake
again and plied them with questions.
      He appeared already to know more about them and
all their families, which caused extreme embarrassment
to all of them, and not a little worry from Mobster. Tom
made no secret that he owed his secret knowledge to
Farmer Maggot whom he seemed to regard as a person
of more importance than they had imagined: "He has a
big bank account, and quite a few connections; and from
the Entwives' aging wood, he made worthy logs." It was
also clear that Tom had dealings with the Elves of Gildor
which caused exclamations of sudden understanding from
all of the hobbits: "Before I saw him, I thought that the *Elves*
were High." said Sam and Frodo agreed.
      Indeed so much did Tom know, that Frodo found
himself describing in greater detail his escapades with
Cassiopeia Took than was generally considered polite.
While Pipsqueak was hurriedly trying to take notes on his
napkin, Tom's eyes glinted.
      "Show me the precious Ring!" he said suddenly in the
midst of the story; and to Frodo's astonishment Tom
simply reached his hand and painfully yanked the chain
from Frodo's neck.
      He juggled it from one hand to the other, while Frodo
tried ineffectually to stop him. In the end Tom spun the
Ring in the air and it vanished with a flash. Then Tom
leaned forward and reached his hand behind Frodo's
ear. "Here it is -- hey, where did it go?"
      In the end the hobbits had to go and search the house
for it. They only found it five hours later, inside the hollow
miniature of Tom's self. 'Those magic rings - you can't
trust the little rascals.' Tom said with a laugh, and not
without a hint of disappointment for the success of the
search.

      Tom gave them a lot of suggestions about how they
should travel the next day: 'Keep on the right of the road
- and mind the traffic. Don't you speak with Barrow-wights
or take rides with strangers.' Then he taught them a rhyme
to sing, if they should by ill-luck meet a side-adventure.
            "Ho! Tom Bombadil, Tom Bombadildo!
            By water, wood and hill, by an armadillo
            by fire, sun and moon, by the heat and frost
            Come, Tom Bombadil, or we'll now be toast."
      When they had sung this, he clapped them each on the
shoulder and taking candles led them back to their beds.
Bree was the chief village of Bree-land, a small country a few miles
broad whose chief claim to fame was its aluminum siding industry.  The
Men of Bree were cheerful and independant: they belonged to nobody but
themselves.  In the lands beyond Bree there were mysterious wanderers.
The Bree-folk called them Rangers, and being unlettered hicks for the
most part knew nothing of their origins.  They were believed to have
strange powers of sight and hearing, and so the Bree-folk thought that
they were the ones who secretly ran the local psychic telephone hotline.
When they appeared, they brought strange news from afar, but since they
didn't buy siding, the Bree-folk did not make friends of them.
    There were also many families of Hobbits in Bree-land.  The Big 'Uns
and the Little 'Uns (as they called one another) were on friendly terms,
both regarding each other as necessary parts of the Bree-folk.  Nowhere
else was this peculiar (but politically correct) arrangement to be
found.
    The Bree-folk, Big and Little, did not travel much.  Occasionally,
the Hobbits of Bree went as far as Beltbuckleland or Eastfarting, though
the Hobbits of the Shire now seldom visited.  An occasional
Beltbucklelander or adventurous Took would come out to buy some siding,
but that was becoming less usual.

The village of Bree had some hundred houses of the Big 'Uns, all with
aluminum siding, awnings and doors.  It was dark when Frodo and his
companions came to the West-gate and found it shut.  The gatekeeper
jumped up and looked at them in surprise.
   "Who the hell are you?" he asked gruffly.
   "We are making for the inn," answered Frodo.  "We are journeying to
the east."
   "Hobbits!  And from the Shire by their talk," the gatekeeper said to
himself.  He stared at them darkly, and then opened the gate.
   "You'll pardon my wondering what business takes you away east of
Bree!  What may your names be, might I ask?"
    "Our names and our business are our own," said Frodo, not liking the
nosiness of the man.
   "No doubt," said the man, "But I'm supposed to ask questions after
nightfall."
   "We are Hobbits from Beltbuckleland, and we feel like staying at the
inn here,"  said Morrie.  "I am Mr. Brandybuck.  And why don't you mind
your own damn business?"
    "All right, all right!" said the man.  "I meant no offense, but
there's queer folk about, not that there's anything wrong with that."
   Frodo wondered why the man was so suspicious, and wondered if anyone
had been asking about a party of Hobbits.  Could it be Gandalf, or
perhaps his creditors? As soon as the gatekeeper's back was turned, a
dark figure climbed over the gate and into the shadows of the village.
    
  The Hobbits rode on up a slope and drew together outside the inn.  Sam
stared up at the inn with its aluminum siding and felt his heart sank.
He had imagined meeting terrifying creatures, but at the moment he was
finding his first sight of Men and their aluminum houses to be quite
enough.  He pictured fierce, warlike elf-maidens peering out the out of
dark upper windows.
   "We surely aren't going to stay here, are we?" he exclaimed.  "Maybe
we could stay with some Hobbits.  It would be more homelike."
   "What's wrong with it?" asked Frodo.  "Tom Bombadil recommended it.
I expect it's homelike enough." 
    Even from the outside the inn looked a pleasant home to familiar
eyes.  A sign above the door pictured a fat white pony rearing on its
hind legs.  Over the door was painted the letters:  THE PRANCING PONY by
BARLIMAN BUTTERBALL.  They climbed up the steps.  Frodo went forward and
nearly bumped into a short, grossly overweight man with a bald head and
sweaty red face.
   "Can we --" began Frodo.
    "Half a minute, if you please!"  shouted the man.  He dissapeared
into the tavern, and reemerged a moment later, wiping his hands on his
greasy apron."
    "Good evening, little master," he said, bending down.  Morrie and
Pipsqueak giggled and chortled at "little master", but Frodo glared at
them and they shut up.
   "We'd like beds for four, and stabling for five ponies," Frodo said.
"Are you Mr. Butterball?"
   "That's right," he said.  "Barliman Butterball at your service.
You're from the Shire, eh?  Now what does that remind me of?  Might I
ask your names, sir?"
    "Mr. Took, and Mr. Brandybuck," said Frodo.  "This is Sam Gamgee,
and I am Mr. Underhill."
    "There now," said Butterball, "it's gone again!  Well, it'll come
back as soon as I have a chance to think."
     Butterball showed them to their rooms and prepared them a dinner in
a private parlor, which was served to them by his wife, Bella.  As he
was leaving, he invited them to join the company in the common room when
they were finished.
     They felt refreshed and encouraged after thier meal, and Frodo, Sam
and Pipsqueak decided to join the company.  Morrie, having learned long
ago the value of keeping a low profile, decided to stay behind, and
perhaps go out later for soem fresh air.

The company was in the large common room of the inn.  It was large and
mixed as Frodo discovered as his eyes adjusted to the light.  Barliman
Butterball was talking to a group of dwarves near the fire.  On the
benches were various folk: the local drunks for the most part, but also
more dwarves and other figures in the shadowy corners.
   The local folk, having drunk a few pints already, cheered the
Shire-hobbits as they entered the room, but the strangers, especially
the ones from the South, stared at them curiously.  Butterball
introduced them to the crowd.  The Men of Bree seemed to have strange,
meaty names like Oscar-meyer, Hatfield, Weaver, Tyson, and Sandyman (not
to mention Butterball).  However, the Hobbits had much more natural
names, like Banks, Bigholes, Earthmovers, and Digger, many of which were
used in the Shire.  There even some Underhills, who immediately took to
Frodo as a long-lost cousin.
    Frodo said that he was interested in history and geography, but got
many blank stares, as the Bree-folk were uneducated and such words
weren't in their vocabulary.  The Hobbits went over to Pipsqueak and
asked him all sorts of questions about the Shire, leaving Frodo to sit
in the corner by himself.
   The Men and Dwarves were mostly talking  of distant events.  There
was trouble away in the South, and the Men who had come up the Greenway
were on the move looking for lands were they could find peace.  The
Bree-folk were sympathetic, but since poor refugees seldom have money
for siding and other home improvements, they didn't want them around.
One traveller, a squint-eyed ill-favored fellow was foretelling that
more people would be coming north in the near future.  He went on and on
about squatters' rights, and local folk were not pleased.
   The hobbits were not as concerned, since Big 'Uns could hardly beg
for lodgings in hobbit-holes.  They were more interested in Pipsqueak
and Sam's tales of the Shire.  Pipsqueak roused a great deal of laughter
with an account of the collapse of the Town Holes in Michel Delving:
Will Whitfoot, the mayor and fattest hobbit in the Shire, had been
buried in his hidden stash of cocaine, and came out looking like a
floured dumpling.
    Then Frodo noticed that a strange-looking flabby man sitting in the
shadows was also listening intently to the Shire talk.
   "Who is that?" Frodo asked, when he got a chance to whisper to Mr.
Butterball.  "I don't think you introduced him."
    "Him?" said the landlord.  "I don't really know.  He is one of the
wandering folk -- Rangers we call them.  What his right name is I've
never heard, but he's known around here as Strider."
   Frodo found that Strider was looking at him, and he beckoned for
Frodo to come closer.
     "I am called Strider," he said in a low voice.  I am pleased to
meet you,  Master Underhill.  If I were you, I would stop your young
friends from talking too much."
    Frodo noticed that Strider's attention was focused on Pipsqueak.  To
his alarm, Frodo noticed that the ridiculous young Took was now talking
about Bilbo's farewell.  He was giving a good imitation of the speech,
and was now drawing close to the astonishing Appearance.
    Frodo was annoyed.  It would bring the name of Baggins the minds of
the locals, especially if there had been inquiries in Bree about the
name.
   Frodo fidgeted, unsure what to do.  Pipsqueak, unmindfull of the
danger, finished the speech, then he jumped up on a table, tore off his
shirt, and started to gyrate his hips wildly.
   "You'd better do something quick!" whispered Strider.
    Frodo jumped up onto another table.  Some of the hobbits looked at
him and laughed, thinking he had taken as much ale as was good for him.
    He felt nervous, and began to fondle the things in his pockets as he
did when making a speech.  He felt the Ring on its chain, and quite
suddenly he felt a desire to slip it on and prove his manhood with
Bella.  It seemed to him, somehow, that the suggestion came to him from
someone or something in the room.   He resisted the temptation firmly.
He spoke a few words, then hesitated and coughed.
    Everyone was now looking at him.  "A song!" shouted one of the
hobbits.  "A song, a song!" shouted all the others.  For a moment he
hesitated, and then one of Bilbo's silly old songs came to mind:

  Hey diddle, diddle, the cat and the fiddle,
  The cow jumped over the moon. 
   The little dog cried to see such sport,
   And the dish ran away with the spoon.

Though since Westron had a lot more words than Modern English, the song
was quite a bit longer than that.
    The applause was long and loud, and they called for an encore.   Now
Frodo began to feel pleased with himself.  He danced on the table, and
when he came to "the cow jumped over the moon" he leaped into the air.
He slipped on a tray of mugs when he came down, and rolled off the
table.  The audience laughed when they saw his pants around his ankles
exposing his flannel boxers with pink oliphaunts.
     One swarthy Bree-lander looked at him with a mocking and knowing
expression, then slipped out the door with the squint-eyed southerner
and the gatekeeper; they had been whispering together a great deal that
evening.
    Frodo felt foolish.  Not knowing what to do, he pulled his pants
back up and took off the Ring.  How it came to be on his finger he could
not tell.  He did not like the looks of the men that had gone out.
   "Well?"  said Strider.  "Why did you do that?  Worse than anything
your friends could have said!  You have put your foot in it!  Or should
I say your finger?  We better wait until the laughter dies down.  Then,
if you please, Mr. _Baggins_, I should like a quiet word with you."
   "Very well,"  said Frodo, "I'll talk to you later." 
 
After the crowd left, Butterball came over to Frodo.  "I'm sorry if I
caused any trouble," Frodo said.  "It was quite unintentional.  We'll be
leaving early tommorrow.  Could you have our ponies ready by eight
o'clock?"
   "Very good.  But before you go, I would like a word with you in
private, Master Underhill.  Something has just come back to my mind that
I ought to tell you.  After I've seen to a thing or two, I'll come to
your room, if you're willing."
   "Certainly," said Frodo, but his heart sank, wondering how many
private talks he has going to have before bed.  Were they against him?
He even suspected fat Butterball's face of concealing dark designs.
Chapter 10: Strider

Frodo hurried the others ahead of him, anxious to get to the
safety of the parlour. Morrie had not yet arrived, but Frodo
locked and barred the door anyway, worried about any creditors
that might be seeking him. It was not until he had puffed up the
embers of the fire that he discovered that Strider had somehow
slipped ahead of them. There he was calmly sitting in a chair!

"You cannot escape me so easily," he said with a slow smile. "You
promised to have a quiet talk with me, after all."

"What have you to say?" Frodo asked, alarmed.

"Several things," answered Strider. "But, of course, I have my
price." He looked at Frodo expectantly.

Several moments passed in silence.

"Well?" Strider said at last. "Will you not make me an offer?"

Frodo thought uncomfortably of his lost accounts. "I cannot," he
said with reluctance. "All that I have now would hardly satisfy a
rogue, and I cannot spare any of it."

"Don't be ridiculous," Strider said. "You're a Baggins, no matter
how you try to pass yourself off as an Underhill. Everyone knows
that you have plenty of money."

"Oh, indeed!" cried Frodo. "Well, that is no longer true. I am
afraid that I have nothing to my name, save some small spare
change."

Strider laughed. "You are, of course, in jest."

"I am not."

Several more moments passed. Strider looked at the hobbits with
narrowed eyes.

"Are you serious?"

Frodo squirmed a little; but Pipsqueak answered readily. "Yes, he
is!" he exclaimed. "Frodo has lost almost everything he owns,
thanks to Gandalf."

Strider stared at them for a moment longer, then turned away in
disgust. "This is NOT fair!" he shouted, glaring at the ceiling.

"Sorry," said a disembodied voice. "Take it up with the Heroes'
Union."

"Don't think I won't," Strider muttered. "This is the fourth
charity case this year." He turned back to the hobbits and forced
a smile on his face. "Very well, I will assist you for nothing."

"Who said we want your help?" blurted Sam. He did not the look of
this pudgy, tall Man.

"You certainly need help from _someone._ That much is clear,"
Strider answered. "Otherwise, you will never get out of Bree
alive, much less reach Rivendell. You are not my ideal choice of
travelling companions; but I see no other way to handle the
matter. I hope we shall get to know one another better. When we
do, I hope you will explain what happened at the end of your
song, Mr. Baggins. That little prank has made people notice you."

"It was sheer accident!" Frodo defended himself. "The Ring
somehow slipped onto my finger!"

"The Ring?" Strider said sharply. "You have not the Ring, Frodo.
Why else did you fail to disappear?"

Frodo opened his mouth to protest, then shut it again. Strider
was right! The Ring should have made him invisible! He pulled the
small circle of gold out of his pocket and examined it closely.
It was a cheap imitation, not the real thing!

"Where is the Ring?" Strider demanded. "We cannot allow it to be
found."

The hobbits looked at each other, then --

"Morrie!" they chorused.

"No wonder he slipped away!" Frodo exclaimed. "He has gone to use
the Ring himself."

"But Frodo's pants fell down," protested Pipsqueak. "Are you sure
that wasn't the Ring's work?"

"Frodo is rather out of shape, is he not?" said Strider with a
curl of his lip. "It is not surprising that his belt could no
longer bear to support his trousers."

"You're not in better shape yourself," Frodo retorted,
embarrassed.

Strider looked down at his own ample middle and shrugged. "It is
a disguise of sorts. No one expects the heir of Elendil to be
overweight."

"Who?"

"Elendil," Strider repeated. At the blank expression on the
hobbits' faces, he tried again. "Isildur's eldest son? Lord of
the Numenoreans? Come on, the kingdom of Arnor?"

Frodo shook his head. "Never heard of it," he said.

"Ridiculous! Haven't you even heard of the fabulous swords of
Westernesse?" Strider rummaged in his pack and withdrew several
sharp knives, long, shaped like the ears of an elf, and keen, of
marvellous workmanship, damasked in red and gold. Each scabbard
was stamped in tiny black letters with the words, "MADE IN
FORNOST."

Frodo took one and turned it over in his hands, almost slicing
his palm open in the process. "They are beautiful blades," he
said in wonder.

"Guaranteed to break undead wills, or your money back," said
Strider proudly. He paused in hope for a moment; but when the
hobbits did not offer to pay, he sighed and leaned back in his
chair.

"And Arwen wonders why I can't get any financial backing," he
muttered to himself. After a moment, he drew his hand across his
brow. "Well, I have become accustomed to such treatment. So what
must I do to convince you?"

"I don't know," Frodo admitted. "Why the disguise? Who are you
really? What do you know about the Ring, and how do you know it?"

Strider frowned. "Why should you believe my story, if you do not
trust me already? Still here it is --"

At that moment there was a knock on the door. The hobbits jumped
at first, then realized it was only Butterball, bringing them
candles and cans of hot water. As Frodo opened the door, Strider
withdrew into a dark corner.

"I've come to bid you good night," Butterball began, his voice
grudging. Then, looking troubled, he withdrew a letter from his
pocket. The parchment was crumpled and stained with jelly and
honey.

"I'm not a postman," he grumbled, "and Gandalf didn't offer me
much money to deliver this."

"Gandalf!" Frodo cried.

"Yes, Gandalf. Dratted old wizard! Still, I don't need him
putting curses on his beer; I'm a busy man, with no time or money
to spare for having hexes removed. So here, take this letter.
Gandalf left it here yesterday morning for a Mr. Baggins."

"But I told you my name is Underhill," Frodo interrupted.

Butterball frowned. "Do you really think anyone was fooled?
Everyone knows 'Sharkey' Baggins. And if I was you, Mr. Baggins,
I'd be paying a tidy sum more for the chance of a peaceful night
without anyone bothering you, if you know what I mean."

Frodo did not bother to try to explain that he was currently
broke. He snatched the letter out of Butterball's hands and
hastily shoved him out the door.

"What do we do now?" Frodo asked wildly. "Butterball's threats
are clear enough, and I don't have any money to give him!"

"Start by reading the letter," Strider advised, coming out of his
dark corner.

Frodo examined the letter. It was written in Gandalf's usual
illegible scrawl.

  Dear Frodo,

  Bad news has reached me here about your secret bank account
  in Isengard. I must go off at once, and cannot wait for you
  any longer. Leave a message for me here, if you pass through
  Bree; the landlord (Butterball) is not very trustworthy, but
  he won't cheat you much. You may meet a friend of mine on the
  Road: a Man, tall, a bit overweight, dark, by some called
  Strider. He knows our business and will help you, if you pay
  him enough. Make for Rivendell. Elrond will advise you.

  Yours in haste

  GANDALF.

  P.S. Why didn't you give me your account number? It would have
  made things much easier.

  P.P.S. Don't use IT again, or you'll be leaving behind a trail
  of outraged husbands that will make it too easy to track you.

  P.P.P.S. Make sure it is the real Strider. There are many
strange
  men on the roads, and most of them are overweight. His true
name
  is Aragon.

    While all that is gold does not glitter,
      The wandering folk can get lost;
    The loss of a kingdom is bitter,
      Especially when out in the frost.
    For an elf-maid his ardor will be woken,
      For her sake he'll do anything;
    He can't fight with blade that is broken,
      But who knows? He just might be king!

Frodo reread the letter, stunned that Gandalf had discovered his
secret bank account and that even that money would be lost.
"Things are going from bad to worse," he groaned.

As Frodo passed the letter to Pipsqueak, Morrie furtively slipped
into the room. Strider pounced on him immediately and wrested the
Ring from him.

"Take it back," he snapped at Frodo, tossing the Ring at him,
"and this time, keep an eye on it!"

Frodo fumbled with the chain, then slipped the Ring back into his
pocket. "Why did you do something so foolish?" he cried to
Morrie. "And how did you use it?"

"I didn't do much," Morrie defended himself. "Well, I went out
for a stroll --"

"I'll just bet you did," snorted Pipsqueak, glancing up from the
letter.

Morrie glared at him, then looked at Strider. "Who is this?"

"That's what I want to know," said Sam, who had fidgeted silently
beside his master during the confrontation with Strider. "I don't
trust him." He glared at Strider. "What say you to that?"

"That you are an idiot," answered Strider. "If I was not who I
say I am, I could have easily overpowered you already. You have
just seen how I willingly gave the Ring back to your master. In
fact, if I wanted to kill you all, I could do it -- NOW!"

He stood up, and suddenly seemed to grow taller and well-muscled.
In his eyes gleamed a light, keen and feral. Throwing back his
cloak, he laid his hand on the hilt of a long sword that had hung
concealed by his side. Sam stared at it, horrified.

"But I _am_ the real Strider, fortunately," he said, looking down
at them with a suddenly kinder eye. He smiled. "I am already
betrothed to an elf-maid, and I have no need for the power of the
Ring. I am Aragon son of Arathon; and if I can save you from your
own stupid mistakes, then I will."

There was a long silence. Pipsqueak and Morrie stared at Strider
with new-found respect at this revelation of his state.

"I think we will have to trust you," Frodo said at last. "What do
you think we should do?"

"Stay here, and do not go to your rooms!" said Strider.
"Butterball sells an excellent beer, but he will also surely sell
information about you to the highest bidder; and the location of
the hobbit rooms in this inn are well known. We will all remain
together here instead."

"So much for a comfortable bed," Sam said gloomily. "I don't like
this, and that's a --"

"_Will_ you stop that!" shouted Pipsqueak. He thumped Sam solidly
on the head.

Muttering to himself, Sam slouched into the corner and prepared
for bed.

Strider remained sitting by the fire, warming his hands as the
hobbits dropped off to sleep one by one. Once he was sure they
were snoring loudly, Strider rose noiselessly from his chair:
swiftly and silently he rummaged through their belongings.

"So they were telling the truth about not having any money," he
mumbled disappointedly. "Elendil! It looks like I'll have to take
them with me to Rivendell for nothing, after all."

Moodily drawing a bottle from Frodo's hidden stash of
Westfarthing Chinook, Strider returned to his chair by the door
to await the coming of the Sun.
  It was a raw night back in the Shire. Howling winds and sudden gusts 
of rain led to an atmosphere worthy of any particularly bad detective 
novel. Fredegar Bolger sat quietly in the house in Crickhollow, nursing 
his ninth Southfarthing Malt and chewing his fingernails in dread. Then, 
suddenly yet predictably, he heard a noise from outside: a _squick, 
squick_ coming down the path, as if from waterlogged boots. Terror seized 
Fredegar. A heavy knock came on the door.
     "Open, in the name of Arwen!" rang out a female voice.
     "No, sorry, not buying, no visitors after ten," Fredegar said 
instinctively. "My mom locked the door and lost the key. Lease says no 
visitors. Sorry."
     "I'm looking for a lone Ranger," said the voice.
     "Can't help you," Fredegar stammered, missing all the obvious 
punchlines.
     "Come _on_!" said the voice. "Let me in. I just want to dry off. 
Look, I'm two thousand years old and I'm _really_ sexy."
     Fredegar's mind was too preoccupied with terror to consider this. 
"Go away!" he shouted. "I'm not in. Leave a message with the building 
manager and we'll call you back in five working days or your pizza's free."
     "I'm just trying to increase the size of my part, damn you!" the 
woman howled out in earnest. "There's a movie coming. Open up!"
     Fredegar said nothing. The mysterious woman continued hammering at 
the door for several minutes, cursing beautifully-rounded epithets, until 
finally she gave up and left. Fredegar heard the _squick, squick_ of her 
boots as she headed back towards Crickhollow. Her departure, however, did 
not cure his terror. He continued looking around the quiet room, looking 
for some nameless horror he could not yet identify.
     After a time he heard a commotion from the stables at Brandy Hall.

                          _No Witnesses!_

     Fredegar leanded over the wooden table, peering towards the 
wood-silled windows. All outside was black until a flash of lightning 
illuminated the countryside. He could just make out a lithe figure in 
camouflage riding away on a stout horse. Some of the local Hobbits were 
dashing out with bows and arrows. It seemed less terrifying outside, 
somehow. The Horn-call of Bucklebeltland, unheard for over a hundred 
years except on gramophone, rang out again.

               _G-Men! Shirriffs! A Hit! No Witnesses!_

     In a flash Fredegar realized the source of his terror. Wood table, 
wood sill, wood-planked walls, floor and ceiling. He was surrounded by 
wood! Like being surrounded by trees, only more cunning! So they 
domesticated themselves, the evil bastards! And now we _rely_ on them! 
Only a matter of time till they kill us all. It all made sense, that 
perfect kind of sense that only comes with excessive drinking. A dawn of 
understanding came to Fredegar. Visions of a brick house, with a stucco 
ceiling and wrought-iron patio furniture, came to him as visions of 
peace. No longer would anyone have to fear slivers! In a flash his 
purpose was clear. His mind resolved, Fredegar Bolger stood and went to 
the closet. Inside behind the bowling balls and collections of pocket 
lint was the great Axe. With a grim chuckle he hefted the steel-handled 
Axe over his shoulder and walked towards the door. There could be no 
compromise. Deforestation was the only answer.
     Bolger smashed open the wooden door and walked into the night.

     Frodo awoke from a deep sleep. Something heavy and pointed had 
rammed him im the side. He looked up to see Strider standing over him, 
holding a finger over his lips and making a _shush_ing noise. With quick 
precision Strider went to each of Frodo's three companions, kicking each 
in turn with his steel-tipped boots and motioning them to silence. When 
he reached Morrie and kicked him Morrie instinctively sensed the movement 
and pulled a knife, motioning to cut a throat which turned out to be 
Strider's ankle.
     "Good instinct there," Strider whispered, examining the ankle of his 
boot. "That's the sort of instinct which will help you out in the Wild."
     Silently they packed their few belongings, along with several of 
Butterball's towels and souvenir ashtrays. Strider urged them on, 
emphasizing the need for haste. When they were ready, however, he stopped 
and led them quickly to their own rooms. The hobbits gasped as they 
surveyed the wreckage: the beds cut and mangled, the table actually 
burned to ashes, piles of crockery broken and smashed. With a motion 
Strider reached down and picked up one of the many pieces of paper 
littering the floor.
     "_Nazdaq,_" he whispered solemly. "The Riders. It is as I feared! 
This is but one receipt of many; they have broken in during the night and 
run up a massive room-service tab. We must escape from Bree before they 
come to us with the hotel-bill. To the stables! Quickly!"
     They went to the stables as quickly as they dared, being careful not 
to wake the greedy Butterball, or his servants, who would undoubtedly 
demand a gratuity. Once inside they went directly to their ponies. But 
disappointment held them fast again. Around each of the ponies' necks was 
a slender steel cable, attached to barrels of lead painted with the 
legend IMPOUNDED. Strider swore.
     "Fie!" Strider cursed, "It is as I feared. They have taken them in 
lieu of a deposit. We Rangers travel light, and seldom carry 
bolt-cutters. I fear we must leave them behind."
     "But how will we carry all our food, and these towels?" Pipsqueak 
whined.
     "We'll have to improvise," Strider answered. He led them out through 
the back door of the stable and into the early dawn light. _Four good 
ponies!_ he thought. _They could have fetched a good price. And what have 
we got in exchange? Towels! One thing Arwen's not going to be glad to see 
me with, it's extra towels._

     The tall Ranger led the puny Hobbits through Bree by many back-ways, 
helping them over the occasional fence, till he reached a particularly 
squalid house by the edge of town. Rusting appliances and tipsy sawhorses 
littered the yard. Motioning the others to wait, Strider snuck up to the 
barn and expertly picked the lock. In a flash he was inside. After a long 
moment he emerged leading a large donkey. "I don't think old Ferny will 
miss this," Strider whispered confidentially to the others. "He stole it 
himself from a Southerner only four days before." They placed their 
possessions onto the ass and led it quietly out of Bree. At the gates it 
seemed positively cheerful, as if happy to get out of the small 
rat-infested village.
     "It seems to like gates," Sam said stupidly, and then named the ass 
Gates for no particularly clear reason.
     After an hour Strider led them off onto a narrow side-trail. "It 
would be good for us to get off the Road," he said. "The Riders I fear, 
but not half so much now as the Bree law-enforcement. I fear it will go 
hard for any Ranger who strays into the _Pony_ for some time."
     The way was easy all that day. Whether by Strider's skills or sheer 
dumb luck the trail was quiet and pleasant, and the sun was out. At 
Pipsqueak's request Sam fished out the bottle of suntan lotion from his 
pack, and they passed it from hand to hand; even the tall Man took some 
for his neck and the bridge of his nose. When the bottle returned to Sam 
it was empty. "You should have brought two bottles, Sam," Frodo said 
gaily. "Or perhaps three! After all, the servant class should better 
anticipate the needs of its masters. Anyway, you'll just have to burn, 
and do without."
     "Oh, I'm burnin', all right," Sam muttered quietly to himself.
     That night they spent under the stars. As the others fell asleep 
Frodo condescended and offered to let Sam suck on his fingers for a time, 
but Sam declined. _No point,_ Sam thought irritably. _Nobody'll be likely 
to wake up and witness it. No witnesses, no blackmail. Where's the point 
in that?_ He rolled the other way, pulled a stolen inn-towel over himself 
and fell quickly asleep.

     The proceeding days turned more difficult. Strider began taking them 
across rougher country, leading them through rocky vales and marshlands 
full of carnivorous insects. The ass Gates, while content and useful on 
easy and well-worn paths, became sluggish and uncooperative on any path 
that required effort. Often it would stop with a blue scream and refuse 
to budge forward until someone booted it. It began to fear the sight of 
Strider's heavy boots. "Couldn't you have stolen something more 
cooperative?" Frodo asked plaintively. 
     "I'd rather we had bought a good pony than taken this for free, even 
if we had to go into debt to do it," Pipsqueak laughed.
     "Do not speak of such things!" Strider said quickly, and with 
surprising earnestness.

     They journeyed on. Mosquitos the size of small ducks began to harass 
them. Gates continued going slower and slower, consuming their resources 
at an alarming rate. After a day or so Strider found a trail fenced by 
high hedges and trees. "Here is an ancient path of my people," he said. 
"It is cunningly hidden and well-protected. It will take us East towards 
Gambletop, where perhaps we may figure out what the hell we're doing."
     "This feels like the country we were in a week or two ago," Morrie 
noted. "Are there Barrow-wights around here?"
     "Not here," Strider answered, and Frodo felt oddly disappointed. 
"Though the Exiles from Atlantis once lived here. Upon Gambletop there 
was once a watch-tower, set as a defence against the Leech-king of old. 
Many generations it stood. It is said that Isildur himself once stood 
upon it, waiting for Gil-Gallamine, at the time of the Last Relaxing."
     "Who was Gil-Gallamine?" Pipsqueak asked. After a moment a voice 
began quietly singing:

             _I dreamed I saw Gil-Gal-la-mine,
             Alive as you or me.
             'I thought they killed you, Gil,' I said,
             Said Gil, 'I did not flee;'
             Said Gil, 'I did not flee.'

             'You went to Mor-dor, Gil,' I said,
             'To fight mon-o-po-ly,
             And kill the Rob-ber Bar-on there,
             And end the Bour-geoi-sie;
             And end the Bour-geoi-sie.'

             'I went there, sure, and fought His greed;
             I went there, sure,' said he.
             'And with me went brave I-sil-dur
             And wor-kers brave and free;
             And wor-kers brave and free.'_

     The voice fell silent. Suddenly they realized the voice had been 
Sam's! "Don't stop there!" Pipsqueak said. "Keep going!"
     "Uh, I don't think I should," Sam answered quickly. "You might not 
like the rest."
     "I wonder what the song means by _robber baron_?" Frodo asked. "And 
_workers brave and free_. Honestly, the stuff they write into these old 
songs. They don't make any sense. Give me a nice simple tune about ale 
and fox-hunting any day, that's for me!"
     Pipsqueak and Morrie mumbled agreement, and proceeded with Frodo 
down the path. Strider gave Sam a short and knowing glance before walking 
away, then left him and Gates to fend for themselves.

     Travel was easier on the path. By morning of two days later they say 
Gambletop shortly ahead of them, a great rounded hill with a broken 
circle of old mortarwork upon its crown. Strider urged them on more 
quickly, wanting to get out of the long travel exposition as soon as 
possible.
     They made it to the foot of the hill by midday, and by sunset were 
nearing its summit. Just short of the top they found a small dell, fenced 
round on three sides by rocky outcrops; there they left Sam to set up 
camp, gather some wood, light a fire, prepare the meals, air out their 
belongings, set a watch and tend to Gates while they went on to explore a 
bit.
     At the hill-top they found the circle of broken stone. In the middle 
of it was the remains of a campfire, and a handful of fist-sized stones. 
Strider examined the remains of the fire expertly. "Someone else was 
camping here," he said, "and recently. I suspect it may have been 
Gandalf! This fire was started by burning old Racing Forms, as is often 
his way."
     "You mean Gandalf was here in the last few days?" Frodo snapped. 
"And didn't even stay to wait for us? That cantankerous old bastard still 
has my money, too!"
     "And lo!" Strider continued, lifting up one of the larger stones. A 
soggy note was beneath it. Pipsqueak reached for it, only to be hit by 
Strider with the rock. "A note on stationery stolen from the _Prancing 
Pony_," Strider continued, picking the note up himself. "It's Gandalf, I'd 
put money on it. If I had any."
     Frodo craned in to look. "What does it say?" he asked.
     Strider held the note up and squinted at it intently. "I can't make 
it out at all," he answered. "His scrawling was torturous in the best of 
times. He wrote this in a hurry, and it's all wet and smudgy. But here is 
the G-rune for Gandalf," he added, pointing at a particularly messy 
ink-smudge.
     "This word near the middle of the letter could be _trap,_" the 
Ranger continued slowly. "And this word just before it might be 
_Gambletop_. And I think this little bit here in the Feenamintian runes 
could be... uhm... _nazdaq_. Yes! Yes, that's it."
     With a curious sinking feeling the four of them looked past the rim 
of the hill and out into the falling night. On the ground far away they 
could just make out three dark shapes some leagues distant, who seemed to 
be pointing straight at them and gesticulating wildly.

     "I'm sure we're perfectly safe," Strider said confidently, back at 
the campfire. "They were a long way away. They'd never find their way up 
here until tomorrow afternoon at least, and by then we'll be long gone. 
Nope, way too hard for them to climb this hill in the dark. Yep, 
absolutely safe, I'm certain of it. No need to set a watch even. 
Absolutely, one hundred percent safe, without a doubt, no question." 
Reassured by Strider's optimism, the hobbits relaxed and roasted 
marshmallows and told ghost-stories as the night descended.
     "Tell us more about old Gil-Gallamine," Pipsqueak said to Sam.
     "Can't remember," Sam said curtly and evasively.
     "Old Bilbo used to sing some of that stuff," Frodo said, "though he 
never explained it afterwards. As I remember it, Gil-Gallamine and 
Isildur, and his sons Elendil and Annarggion, got together a huge army to 
attack Mordor. And the siege lasted for nine years, and five hundred 
thousand Men were brutally murdered, and five hundred thousand Elves were 
brutally murdered, and Gil-Gallamine was brutally murdered, and Isildur 
was brutally murdered, and Annarggion was bru-"
     "Uh, yeah, maybe we should just skip that tale for now," Strider cut 
in, looking quickly towards the edge of the dell. "It's time to all go to 
bed and dream of sugarplums and dancing cornflakes or something."
     "But we want a tale of the Ancient Days!" Pipsqueak whined 
obnoxiously. "Do you know any tales of the Ancient Days, Strider?"
     "All too many," Strider said wearily. "For I have lived in the house 
of El Rond, where one may hear them all endlessly and to one's great 
weariness. But I will tell you the tale of Trollopiel, in brief, and only 
if you all shut up afterward." And once they had all agreed to his terms, 
the tall Ranger sat up and began singing quietly:

          _In Dors-o-loch, in ancient time,
            The luckless wand'ring Bluto lay;
          His hands were smeared with blood and grime
            From battles fought in wandering.
          He came to Dos-o-loch that day
            Though being there was held a crime;
          In desperation sought his way
            Though Elves said he was trespassing.

          What evil luck, what evil fate
            Had come upon his mortal name!
          In Dors-o-loch he might abate
            The headache he had simmering.
          And so beneath the fence he came,
            Not knowing that he'd find a mate
          In Elvenhome's most lovely dame,
            A lass of sexy quivering!

          One night beneath the Moon he spies
            Fair Lustianne upon a hill,
          A sight too good for Mortal eyes,
            And no clothes there a-covering.
          With inhibitions running nil,
            And Bluto's heart a-tantalize,
          He calls out: _Fair Trollopiel!_
            She shrieks, and runs for costuming.

          Now blind and looking for that lass
            He hunts for her for twenty days,
          With mem'ry of that shapely ass
            That set his hormones quivering.
          And all that time inside she stays,
            So frightened some would think her crass
          For her nocturnal naughty ways
            In quiet starlight shimmering.

          But hormones call, as hormones will,
            And out one night she goes again
          To dash through Nature, wearing nil
            But dew upon her, glistening.
          And Bluto sees, and calls again!
            _Trollopiel! Trollopiel!_
          Though common sense tells her to run,
            She stands there, naked, listening.

          Then Bluto does, lust-shaking, walk
            To Lustianne with gentle care,
          For if by sudden move she balk,
            Another month of wandering!
          But Lustianne somehow will dare
            To wait for him. And so they talk,
          Then touch, then grope, then passion's flare
            Consumes, and leaves them foundering.

          Next morning naked they were found
            By guards of old King Thinowilld.
          (And Lustianne, by Bluto, bound!
            The sergeants stood there sniggering.)
          The mighty King is fury-filled.
            A Man, have Lustianne ungowned!
          His daughter, looking lust-fulfilled!
            His rage is now a-triggering.

          But Mirilou, the Queen, recalls
            To him their coursthip long before,
          And how he chased her through the halls
            And took her 'twixt the curtaining.
          How nat'ral that their child adore
            That lusty joy, that now appalls
          The King! If now one oath he swore,
            She says, a Royal Divorcing!

          So Thinowilld is stuck at last,
            And says to Bluto, mortal Man,
          That now his anger is all past
            And this new guest he's welcoming.
          But also now he plots a plan
            To rid him of this horny guest
          who dares to take his Lustianne!
            His thoughts are dark and troubling._

Strider stopped for a long moment, wrapped in some inner lust. "That is 
but a part of a long tale," he said, "in an ancient Elvish mode which 
requires rhyming three syllables on every fourth line, for which rhyming 
dictionaries are bloody useless. It tells of the meeting of Bluto, son of 
Bearhand, one of the First Men to come out of the factory, and Lustianne, 
by far the sexiest and most kick-ass of the Elves. Her father Thinowilld 
gets all huffy and makes a barroom bet with Bluto that he can't steal a 
_slipcast_ from the Iron Fist of Mordred. Bluto takes him up on it, and 
though Thinowilld locks up all of her clothes Lustianne goes with Bluto 
anyway. They have many adventures. I think there's a set of children's 
books about it. Anyway, after a long while they settled down and raised a 
family. Elysium the Mariner was of their kin, and El Rond and Earohed his 
children. El Rond you know of. Earohed was the first King of Atlantis, 
and from his lineage comes the great Sea-Kings, and Isildur, and the 
great and unfailing line of truly just and noble kings who rightfully 
should hold undying Godlike dominion over every little bit of 
Middle-earth by divine right."
     The hobbits looked at Strider. There seemed to be a fiery light in 
his eyes and a nobility in his face and a power-mad tremble in his lip 
which they had never noticed, or at any rate had been able to somehow 
ignore, till now.
     "Wow, must be about four in the morning," Morrie said, eager to 
change the subject. "Look: the Moon is setting. And there's three or four 
dark meanacing figures beginning to make their way into the dell."
     Strider leaped to his feet. "Keep close to the fire!" he shouted. 
"Take out those cheap little swords I gave you, and stand ready! Oh, if I 
hadn't been reciting that damn poem I could have been on the other side 
of the Hill by now."
     The dark shapes came closer. In them Frodo seemed to perceive a 
hatred of all _living_ things, a darkness beyond darkness, a soulless 
Void without light, mercy or hope. Or maybe it was just dinner catching 
up with him. Morrie and Pipsqueak were collapsing into a blind terror, so 
horrified that they could barely laugh. Sam stood off to one side, his 
eyes wide, barely able to concentrate on the dishes. Strider alone stood 
bravely, holding a flaming stick in his right hand and pointing 
surreptitiously towards Frodo with the left. The horrific black shapes 
drew nearer and nearer.
     And suddenly Frodo got the urge to put on the Ring. Not with any 
plan in mind, not to turn invisible and certainly not to seduce them, but 
just to put it on. The calling seemed to come from outside him. Perhaps 
it was a venomous, fell voice of Doom; perhaps it was the whisper of the 
wraiths, carried terrifyingly by the frail wind; perhaps it was just Sam 
whispering "Puuut the Rinnng onnnnn..." in a deceptive whisper. Frodo could 
not tell. Finally succumbing to his terror, he slipped on the Ring.
     The world of light faded, and Frodo suddenly saw the black shapes 
for what they were: nightmarish victims of other Rings, their souls 
forever enslaved, and not just minorities after all. One of them wore a 
pale crown. Yet even as he saw them they surged forward.
     The Ringwraiths pressed a small envelope into Frodo's hand, then 
stepped back. Frodo opened it, looked briefly at the page then fell back 
with a cry of despair. With his last strength he refolded the letter 
before blackness overtook him.
When Frodo came to he was still clutching the folded letter desperately. His
companions were stumbling around, feeling for him and cursing him quite
vividly.
  "Frodo? Fro-o-do?"
  "Frodo! Frodo! Where is that addlepate?"
  "Master Frodo! Master! Oh, Frodo, me dear, me dear! This is your Sam
calling for you! You still owe me two weeks' wages, dammit!"
  "You should have agreed to suck his fingers", mumbled Strider.
  "You're a fine one to scold!" flared Sam, whose suspicions of Strider had
been amply confirmed. "Don't you think I realize you helped those Riders
find us? Did they bribe you to do so?"
  "Er... yes", said Stider. "I have to get money from somewhere, and you
cheapskates are not directly assisting."
  "Traitor!" shouted Frodo. They all turned towards the sound of his voice.
  "All right, Frodo", said Morrie coldly. "You can take off the Ring now."
  Frodo obliged and said accusingly to Strider: "I trusted you to take us to
Rivendell!"
  "And I will", said Strider unconcernedly. "But you can't blame me if I
earn a bit of money on the way. Well, you can if you want to, but I couldn't
care less. And now that they have given you that piece of paper I think the
Nazdaq will leave us alone for a while."
  "Yes, the paper!" shouted Pipsqueak. "What is that piece of paper you hold
in your hand? Tell us what that paper is! What's on that paper? Tell us,
tell us, tell us!"
  Frodo gave him a tired glance. "You're an even bigger nuisance than that
half-brother of yours, Fatty Bolger", he said.
  "Well, what is it, anyway?" asked Morrie.
  Frodo ground his teeth. "It's a letter from a law firm called Goatleg,
Goose & Gander", he answered. "They inform me that my distant relative Hippo
Baggins has died and left me his estate by Lake Nurnen, and his title. (He
belonged to a southern branch of hobbits.) He was terribly rich, being a
racist slave-trader in Haradrim and Easterlings, and I am now Sir Frodo
Baggins of Moneybags Hall, Nurnenshire."
  "Well, what's so awful about that?" demanded Morrie. "A nice estate in
Mordor is nothing to turn up your nose at, particularly since you can't ever
return to the Shire. The creditors Gandalf got for you would tear you to
pieces."
  "Of course I want the estate!" shouted Frodo. "But the paper says I must
appear in the local court in Mordor within two weeks after receiving this
paper, or else forfeit my inheritance! It will go to the state, that is to
say to Sauron, instead" He turned accusingly towards Strider. "That's why
the Black Riders really tried to get hold of me! They are working for
Sauron. AND YOU HELPED THEM!"
  "For a consideration", said Strider calmly. "And for a consideration, I'll
help you come into your inheritance."
  "But I have to get to that court within two weeks!" stormed Frodo. "And
there is no way I can do that, unless the Eagles carry me there." He
stopped, obviously struck by an idea. Then he said to Strider: "Would the
Eagles do that? Could you summon them -"
  "No", said Strider decisively. "The eagles will NOT carry you to Mordor.
They are not some kind of talking aircabs. But if you get to Rivendell
within two weeks, El Rond, as a local magistrate, can grant you a deferment
about appearing at that court. I'll help you get to Rivendell in time, if
you'll just sign this little IOU." He held forth a piece of paper. Frodo
took it, read it and reeled backwards with a shout.
  "Fifty thousand gold coins! You want fifty thousand gold coins to help me
get there in time!"
  "And it's legally binding for both of us", remarked Strider, studying his
fingernails. He gave Frodo a keen glance. "I *really* do not see how you
will be able to make it to Rivendell without my help. Or with me working
aginst you", he added with a light, jocular laugh which chilled the blood of
the hobbits.
  "OK, you blood-sucker", groaned Frodo. He signed the paper and tossed it
back to Strider. "There!"
  Strider looked carefully at the document before stowing it away. "We'll
move out now", he declared. "I think we have had enough of Gambletop."
  "I want to know what the Black Riders looked like!" shouted Pipsqueak. The
others looked at him in distaste.
  "Oh, very well", said Frodo. "I'll tell you anything if you will just shut
up after that. They were dressed all in black... black all the way. One of
them seemed to be dressed in nothing except black lingerie."
  "Yes", said Strider. "A couple of them are into crossdressing. One of them
actually likes to disguise himself as Arwen, my fianc. And he's quite good
at it; he won a contest for Arwen imitators some years ago."
  "One of them had a pale crown."
  "That would be the Leech-king. He went bald thousands of years ago, and he
never walks under the sun, so of course his crown is pale."
  "Well, I agree about getting off this hill", said Morrie. "I don't like
the wind. I think it's going to rain."
  "Or snow", said Strider. "In that case we might see the Sand-Orcs throw
snowballs at each other. Some peope come here to watch it."
  "Well, I don't" said Morrie.
  "My point is that a day's march from here is the Forsaken Inn, which
caters to the tourists. If we start now we might be there in time for
supper." Strider rubbed his stomach. "I'm so hungry!" he moaned. "I haven't
eaten properly since we left the Prancing Pony."

The evening saw them installed at the Forsaken Inn, which was run by a
chuckling, cold-eyed man called Benjamin Butterball, the brother of Barliman
at the Prancing Pony. Before they arrived there, Strider had warned them
about this fact and advised them not to flaunt the towels they had stolen
from Barliman. After having paid in advance, they sat down to a meal of
fried Mmak's ear with Gondorean fries and garlic butter, though Strider's
slobbering, greedy way of wolfing down his food made the others lose their
appetite.
  "If you keep eating like that you'll be known as Waddler instead", Morrie
said to him. Strider glared at him and then defiantly ordered buttered
muffins with his after-dinner coffee.
  "Why didn't the Nazdaq take the Ring from Frodo?" asked Pipsqueak. Since
this was actually a quite clever question, nobody glared at him.
  "Aparently, those three didn't know that Frodo carries the Ring. They are
even more stupid than their master, thank Eru", said Strider through a huge
mouthful of muffins while melted butter dribbled down his chin. The sight
was so disgusting that the others left the able and went to bed.

The following morning saw Strider complaining at the breakfast table about
the fact that the inn did not serve Choco-Frosted Sugar Bombs. For some
reason, this made the others enjoy their toast and marmalade more than they
might possibly have done otherwise. Frodo improved his mood further by
smuggling Westfarthing Chinook into his coffee; when they once more hit the
road he was decidedly tipsy.
  "Sam, why don't you recite a poem for us?" he burbled as he staggered last
in line down the road.
  "Very well, Master Frodo", said Sam with a faint sneer. "I hope you like
this one." He began to sing to an old tune.

            Squire, the fool, he sat on his stool,
            counting his gains as a plutocrat's tool;
                For many a year he had gnawed the poor,
                    For gold was all he cared for.
                        Cared for! Dared for!
            In his house on the hill he dwelt alone,
                    For gold was all he cared for.

            Up came Tom with his big boots on.
            Said he to the squire: "Pray, what is yon?
                For it looks like the coins o' my nuncle Tim,
                    Who belonged to the struggling masses,
                        Classes! Asses!
                This many a year has Tim been gone,
                    Who belonged to the struggling masses."

            "My lad", said Squire, "this gold I stole.
            But what be bones that lie in a hole?
                Thy nuncle owed me for food and rent,
                   To pay for that his coins he spent.
                        I lent! He went!
            He can spare a share for a poor old mole,
                For his money for better folks was meant."

            Said Tom: "I don't see why the likes o' thee
            Without axin' leave should go makin' free
                With the money belongs to my father's kin:
                    So hand the mazuma over!
                        Rover! Trover!
                Though dead he be, it belongs to me;
                    So hand the mazuma over!"

            "For a couple o' pins", says Squire, and grins,
            "I'll flay thee too, and gnaw thy skins.
                A bit o' fresh mint will go down sweet!
                    I'll try my bailiff on thee now.
                        See how! Cash cow!
                I'm tired of gnawing old bones and skins;
                    I've a mind to plunder thee now."

            But just as he thought his profit was caught,
            He found his hands had hold of naught.
                Before he could mind, Tom slipped behind
                    And gave him the boot to larn him.
                        Warn him! Darn him!
                A bump o' the boot on the seat, Tom thought,
                    Would be the way to larn him.

            The class-conscious prole took back what Squire stole
            and hanged him and buried him in a hole.
                We'll kick the toffs from their fancy homes,
                    And give them the rope to still them.
                        Kill them! Fill them!
                Yes, we Reds will take back what the Squires stole,
                    And give them the rope to still them.

  "Well, that's a warning to us all!" laughed Morrie. "That will be the day,
eh, Sam, lad?"
  "It will indeed, and no mistake", said Sam darkly. They walked on in
silence, Frodo hiccoughing.

The Road lay quiet under the long shadows of early evening. There was no
sign of any other travellers to be seen, but suddenly they heard a sound
behind them: a strange, rattling, coughing sound. While they hesitated, a
dilapidated old T-Ford came in sight. As it drew nearer they saw that a huge
frog was sitting behind the wheel. The car stopped and the frog got out.
  "Haista paska!" it shouted. This is a vulgar term in an Elvish dialect and
roughly means: "Ah, you at last!"
  "Haista paska yourself", answered Morrie. "And who may you be?"
  "I'm Morton the Frog", declared the driver, "and I have been sent by El
Rond to help you."
  "Help us?" said Strider. "He sent a frog to help us?"
  "Do not underestimate the green side of the frog", said Morton. "Kiss me
and find out!"
  Strider was about to answer something intemperate, but checked himself.
Suddenly, a strange gleam lit in his eyes. To the amazement of the others,
he strode (or possibly waddled) up to the frog, grasped it in his arms and
kissed it. The frog turned into Arwen, the Elven princess.
  They all stared at her in silence. When Arwen had been born, she had been
a very beautiful maid, but that was thousands of years ago. With every
mortal life span she laid to her age, she had also added the beauty of one
mortal maid. To put it another way, she was by now very good-looking indeed.
  The effect on the rest of the company was stunning, but Frodo was filled
with madness. For the first time he truly realized what sex was all about.
Suddenly, as in a dream, he saw once more Cassiopeia Took's benippled
glories in front of him, like two enchanted bombs of desire. There was a
roar of passion in his ears; it was drowned by the piercing cries of his
blood as it carried him away. Then Frodo felt himself falling, and the
roaring and confusion seemed to rise and engulf him. He heard and saw no
more.
Book II

The Ring Keeps on Going, and Going, and Going....

Being the second half of the first third of the latter history of
Lower-Upper-Middle-Earth.

Chapter 1

Many Margaritas


     Frodo woke with a splitting headache which was made worse when he realized
that nothing that painful could be a dream.
     "Where am I _ and why is everything so _loud_,"  he said before changing
to a whisper.  Oh, this was a bad one alright.
     "You are in the Last Homely House  or the first  or maybe neither, as
many homely houses have been built before and after this one. suffice it to say
that it is the house of El Rond and he's been hard at work up until last night
trying to save your silly mortal hide."
     The voice was that of Gandalf's and Frodo never imagined any voice could
be as loud as what he was hearing right now.  "Could you show some respect and
keep it down.  _Please._  People are busy dying here."
     "Oh its not that bad, you could be dead already."  Gandalf had turned away
from the sideboard he had been standing at and was approaching Frodo with a
fluted glass with a green concotion in it.  "Here.  Drink this, it will help
you get over the hang..., I mean, headache that you have.  It has been close
these past four days and we had to keep you well sedated while we forced the
blood toward your brain again.  Nasty work that was.  We didn't finish until
last night.  Oh, by the way, don't worry, some women find scars sexy."
     I don't know which, Gandalf thought to himself, but I'm sure there must be
at least one somewhere.
     "Four days!" cried Frodo.  "You mean I haven't _eaten_ in four days?!?! 
Get something in here right now!  And make sure there are plenty of mushrooms!"
     "Well, at least you seem to have you're spirit back.  Although you seem to
forget that your on the lamm and are owing your well being to others.  Some
gratitude first... and finish that drink."
     The wizard smile inwardly.  That Frodo's aggresiveness had not been
permanently harmed by all he had been through was good, but still, keeping the
hobbit pliable with these elvish concoctions would still be necessary to
guarantee that he continued to bankroll this quest more or less willingly, at
least until there were no magistrates around who could decide in his favour.
     A knock came on the door, and then it opened.  A beautiful elven maid came
in carrying a large tray of food.  The maiden set the tray before Frodo, and
handed him a second glass of the amazingly good, if salty, green drink that
Gandalf had given him earlier.  "I'm Margarita. Here, El Rond and Gandalf say
this will help you to recover from your trauma.  And if there is anything else
you need we will surely try to provide it for you."
     Frodo smiled at this and thought that this was exactly what the ring was
meant for. His thought flashed to the golden object.  "The ..."
     "...Ring?" said Gandalf, showing that he knew the hobbit all too well. 
"It is safe around your neck, on a new chain.  But don't try using it or El
Rond will make sure that something else is around your neck soon enough.  It is
much to dangerous to use now that you have started to unwittingly tap into some
of the power of the white gold."
     Frodo frowned as his face turned red.  He turned his thoughts to the tray
that had cause the girl to come in.  Half of it was filled with mushroom
delicacies and the other half was filled with pallette cleansing side dishes to
have between the various preperations of the fungi.  He dove in, stuffing
himself as only a starved hobbit could and looked up at the wizard. 
"SaauummGH?"
     "Sam?  Oh, yes.  Sam and the others are alright.  In fact they have all
been enjoying your portions at the table while you've been out of it.  Once you
drew the fainted they were quite safe from your advances and had no trouble
getting here.  Have another dose of your, um... medication."
     Gandalf refilled Frodo's glass.  Frodo had to admit it was the best
prescription he had ever tasted.  His headache was rapidly diappearing but he
was getting a little light-headedness in return.
     "Time for you to rest again.  Tomorrow, maybe, you should be able to walk
about a bit.  But for now bedrest is the thing.  Unfortunately Elvish surgical
practices aren't what they used to be."  The wizard left Frodo with enough
curiousity to kill ten cats.  He looked under the sheets.  He was only able to
count four scars before passing out.

***

     Sam came in the next morning and drew the curtains wide.
     "Close them!!!"  cried Frodo, as a searing pain came across his eyes.
     Sam didn't listen.  "Some fresh air and light will do you good, master. 
Here, Gandalf  said you still might be suffering from some pain beacause of
yours wound.  This stuff seems to do wonders."  Sam handed Frodo a glass of the
green liquid.  "If you want, sir, we might be able to find some fresh fruit for
that to make it more palettable."
     "Yes," replied Frodo.  "that would be good.  Next time.  It does seem to
help the pain though."
     "Indeed it does, sir.  In fact, many of the elves like to have a dose or
two at the end of a days work, but what work it is they do I couldn't tell you
sir.  They seem to have perfected the art of taking it easy, if you know what I
mean."
     Frodo saw an elven maid pass by the open door.  "I know exactly what you
mean, Sam.  I'd like to learn that art from them myself."
     "Do you feel up for a stroll, sir?  Everyone has been quite excited since
you came out of the shed that El Rond and Gandalf took you when you got here. 
It was a long time they spent workin' on you and there were at least two
barrels of this here green stuff that went in there.  _Annie-stay-tick_ they
called it but most people seem to call it margarita."
     "That's what the girl who brought me my supper yesterday said her name
was," said Frodo.
     "Anniestaytick?"  Sam put his nuckle in his eye, trying to make some sense
of things.
     "No, you ninny-hammer!  Margarita."
     "Oh.....  Well, they do seem to like the stuff, so I'm not suprised
they've named some of the younger ones after it.  That's meaning younger to
them, I mean, seeing as most of the lassies around here are at least a couple
thousand years old."
     Frodo had another vision af the elf from the day before and his stomach
turned slightly.  He took another sip of his drink.  Yes, that's better, he
thought.

***

     After Frodo had risen and gotten dressed in the fresh clothes that had
been provide for him, he and Sam started out to explore the house of El Rond. 
Many halls it had as Bilbo had recounted over and over again when anyone gave
him the opportunity.  Halls for eating, halls for thinking, halls  for reading
quietly and even halls for.....  "Oh, YES," thought Frodo, "I'll have to visit
_that_ hall," but just then he heard a ascream of "midget pig!" and Morrie and
Pipsqueak were flying out with the closing door barely missing them as they
passed through.
     "Hi there, Frodo!" said Morrie.  Pipsqueak only grinned and he wiped his
mouth with his forearm.  Morrie elbowed him in the side.
     "Yes.  Hi there, Frodo.  Glad to have you back.  We were having such an
awful time worrying about you."
     Frodo just glareed at the two and they shut up quickly, although Morrie
did not like being talked to like that on any occasion.
     "Why don't we take Frodo over to the Hall of the Fire," said Pipsqeak,
breaking the silence.
     "That sounds like a splendid idea," agreed Sam and the two were off down
the hall.  Frodo and Morrie gave a final glare at each other, smiled, and
followed.

***

     The hall they entered was as large as a large as a the largest hobbit
banquet halls, which can be very large when you think of all the relatives and
friends that hobbits feel obligated to invite because of social niceties. 
Bilbo's had been so large a party that it had to be moved outdoors, with the
party quonset being constructed to entertain the more favoured guests while
keeping away the less desireable yet obligatory invitees .  In the middle of
the hall but toward the far end from where the four had entered, was a large
circular fire, free standing with the flu just above it.  It was about twenty
feet in diameter and a fire raged it , keeping even those at the other end of
the room warm.
     An elven waitress came over to offer Frodo and his friends some
_margaritas_.  Each of them gratefully took one, Frodo going so far as to take
a second as well.  "These headaches, y'know.  This seems to be the best thing
for them."  The others nodded while smiling knowingly each to the other two.
     To the right was a bent old dwarf, who motioned for Frodo to come closer.
     "It is a pleasure to meet the heir to Bilbo," said the dwarf.  "I already
see signs that his cunning and guile, when used to save his own skin, has been
passed on to you.  Having made the journey you  did shows that both his luck
and skill were passed on to his, uh, _nephew_."
     "Am I correct in presuming that I am talking to one of Bilbo's companions
from his oft told journey?"
     "That you are Mr. Baggins."  Here the dwarf bowed low as he intoned
"Gloin, at your service."  Gloin held his bow for a moment, until Frodo
directed Sam to help unbend him.
     "Ah, Bilbo," said Frodo wistfully.  "He did have a habit of going on, but
still..."
     "You miss him dearly, do you not, Frodo?" asked Gloin.
     "Yes, I do.  Sometimes I wonder where he is and if he still has that
chain."
     Out of the corner of his eye Frodo noticed El Rond entering the hall. 
Rather than coming over to Frodo's group, he strode quickly to the opposite end
of the hall where  he greeted the most beautiful Elven woman that Frodo had
ever seen, and he had been keeping his eyes open so as not to miss one since he
had awakened.  In fact, he was distracted for a moment as a wiatress came up to
offer more _margaritas_ to the party, which they all gladly accepted, Frodo
saying "here, (hic) why don't I take two so you don't feel rushed to get back."
     Before she turned away, Frodo grabbed the waitresses arm.  "Who is that to
whom El Rond is speaking?" he asked.
     "That is the Daughter of the Msster of this house.  Arwen, daughter of
Celebrian who has gone to the halls of Mandos."
     And so Frodo set eyes once more on the beauty which few mortals had yet
seen, the vision of which had so recently given a temporary cure to his malady
and his first access to the awsome full power of the ring, Arwen, who by the
elves was called _Indomitable_, the Morningstar of her people, for with that
heavy piece of weaponry as well as other small handheld throwing weapons she
was as proficient as all but the greatest of the Rangers of the North.  He had
not recognized her in her black leather regalia, which she found useful both in
battle and in other places where persuasive tactics might be enjoyed.  Indeed,
as Frodo looked more closely, he could see that what he had first taken to be
baubles and jewlrey were indeed many stars and knives placed within easy reach
of her hands, and El Rond, who loved her dearly, still kept a space between
them as they hugged in greeting so as not to be pricked by a well sharpened
blade injudiciously placed.  Her brothers, Al Ladan and Al Rokar, who had long
since stopped worrying about their sisters safety, were off hunting down traces
of those who had pursued Frodo and his companions.
     Frodo thought to himself that it did not matter if she was older than
dirt, she was still the best looking woman; Elf, Mortal or Hobbit; he had ever
seen, and if ever he got the chance...  But his reverie was broken and his
attention turned away as a voice came out of the fire.

There once was a man named Elysium
Who ran a smuggling consortium
	To the Undying Lands
	He led all his hands
In the hopes of scoring some opium.

Many a battle was fought
Over jewels some elf had wrought
	The poppies had withered
	while the elvish folk dithered
Over lessons the Valar had taught.

To them did Elysium sail
Through many a monstrous gail
	A Silmaril in hand
	He thought to demand
All the poppies Aman had for sale.

El Wing, his wife, came along
For she looked mighty good in a thong
	If the jewels held no interest
	Opinies this satirist
With his wife he couldn't go wrong.

The Valar, their interest did pique
When the light of the jewel it did leak
	Eonwe did say
	As they stood at the quay
"The Powers to you they would speak."

To the high point they both did walk
For Elysium wanted to talk
	A jewel he would sell
	for the chance for to smell
Of poppies, but the Valar did balk.

"Nay," said their spokesman, Gal-Ds
"For the fate of the world you would toss
	Away for a pittance.
	Your incompittence
Has worked out to your own loss."

At this did Elysium quake
For the jewel he thought they would take
	And he without tuppence
	Would get his come-uppence
Of a jones he ne'er could slake.

"In Middle-earth now you are done
We now send you forth with one
	Of the Silmarili
	In the sky for to fly
Until the Last Battle's begun.

"To your sons we will give this choice
For each of them you will rejoice
	To chose Man or Elf
	To live both himself
and his children, for they have no voice."

Mannish strain Earohed chose
And why?  Nobody knows.
	El Rond, he still lives
	while his brother, he gives
His flesh over to decompose.

Elysium stands on his deck
With an Silmaril hung 'round his neck
	With his wife by his side
	In the sky he does ride
keeping darkness forever in check.


Now the voice was recognizable, it was Bilbo's and a smile came across Frodo's
face as the old hobbit who was being dragged around the hearth by two of El
Rond's Balliffs.
"Hullo, Frodo, my lad," Bilbo said.  "I hear you had a bit of trouble getting
here."  Frodo gave the tottering old hobbit an embrace and then drew up a chair
for him.
They were joined by El Rond and Gandalf as well, for Frodo had missed him
entering as the poetry was being recited.  "A bit cheeky of you to be writting
poems about your hosts parents, do you think Bilbo?"  said Gandalf.
Bilbo shrugged him off and continued, "Do you still have it?  The ring that is.
 I must say there are many reasons to use it around here and at my age I could
use all the help I can get."
Gandalf, seening a frown coming across El Rond's face, interjected.  "Your time
of possesing the ring has past, Bilbo.  It is time for others to carry the
burden, but maybe not for to much longer."  He handed Frodo another drink.
     "But of course.  Master El Rond, you must know that I was only jesting."
     El Rond was about to reply when Frodo downed his drink in one gulp.  He
looked fine and then his eyes became wide and he started  to lose his balance.
     "Frodo, Can you here me?" asked Gandalf.
     "Yesshh," replied the sodden hobbit.  "Boy-o-boy, when these things
finally hit they hit hard, don't they Gandy-poo?"
     "I can help you through this Frodo my friend, but you'll have to do what I
say and it may take a while. OK?"
     "I'll do anything you say, Gand-meister."
     To El Rond and the others Gandalf spoke softly.  "We're halfway there. 
With him loaded like this we're sure to get the rest of his accounts from him."
 In a louder voice Gandalf spoke to the general gathering of people.  "Alright
everyone, he's primed.  It's time to have our Council."  There was a muted
cheer as Morrie, Pipsqueak and Sam, carrying Frodo between them, followed after
Gandalf and El Rond to the Meeting Hall.  Bilbo tottered slowly after them.
The Council of El Rond




As they entered the room, Frodo though he noticed that all present
rather felt the same as he did, what with all the deformed faces the
greeted him and all the spinning going about. Most of those present
Frodo knew already.  The others were: Giggly the dwarf, Gloin's son (he
had earned his name since he couldn't stop giggling whenever he is
excited for what ever reason), an elf clad all
in flashy green was called Lego-lass.  She was a messenger from her
father Thranduil, and had a slightly plastic shine to her skin and
rather squarish edges to her features.  Further along, there was a man
that El Rond introduced as Boromir(tm).  He was dressed as for riding,
and was sporting a helm of ancient design, simple and black, surmounted
with two round protusions.  He also carried a small pocket sized silver
tipped horn on his belt.  It seemed as if it had been bigger at one
point, but had been cloven down to this size.  As if a weird
coincidence, Boromir(tm) was the only one sporting a red shirt, all the
others being dressed in yellow.  Besides that, there were many from El
Rond's house hold and representatives of other elven lords.  And in a
corner Frodo saw Arwen.  As soon as he saw her he said: "What are you
doing here?  Get out of here you have no role, and stop trying to get
more for the upcoming movie!"  At this Arwen replied: "Daaaaad, can I
stay please say I can, I really do want a bigger role in that movie.  I
promise I'll be nice girl and I won't touch any weapons for the next
month
if you let me stay." 'Out you go' said El Rond, 'Frodo is right you have
nothing to do in this scene.'  She went out and bashed in a stool that
was
in her way without thinking much about it.  After she slammed the door,
all heard a carnage going on outside, and El Rond knew he would have to
redecorate once again.

***

We will not delve into the the details of what was told at this council,
for if we did, it would not only be those who were present who would be
sleeping on it.

At the start, Gloin rambled on and on about how the dwarves wanted to
regain Moira, and that the dwarves who left to find Moira probably lost
their way since they were never heard from again.  He also talked about
a horseman with a most charming voice who came by to pay them a visit at
the Lonely Mountain.  He was asking about a ring, and was so desperate
of getting it back that he offered his special services for it.  The
dwarves not looking the horse in the mouth (had they, they would've
found him with an extremely bad breath and would've refused the offer)
accepted, but never told him they didn't have the particular ring. 
However, the stranger not being able to differentiate between the male
and female dwarves left in utter dismay,  without having provided
services to anyone.

Afterwards, El Rond recounted the story of the finger cutting, where
Sauron was mad at Gil-Gallamine for not faling under the seductive power
of the Ring.  'Gil-Gallamine not liking to be given the finger, cut off
Sauron's finger and thus started the battle of the Gladden Fields.  As
this was happening, Elendil, being peace loving as he was, tried to
prevent Gil-Gallamine from cutting Sauron's finger, but he tripped on
his sword Narsil and broke it at the same time.  After this war there
has
always been some petty unorganised squabbles going on, since Sauron had
been flushed down the etheral drain.  Eventually, Gil-Gallamine
disapeared with his ring, he never came back from a barn where a gal was
waiting for him.  He did not suspect that it was an orcish gal, when he
found
out, he tried running away, but he fell in the river Sirion and never
came back up, he should've learnt how to swim.  Only myself, Othar, and
Cirdan know this story, for we alone saw him drown, we tried to find his
body and the ring, but we never did.'

'Wait a minute' said Frodo, 'I thought your name was El Rond not Othar,
what's
going on here?'.

'Yes well, both are my name.  Othar is my original name, but after the
Battle of the Gladden fields, I stopped excercising and gave heed to
prowesses of the mind only.  After a while, I grew soft, then flabby,
and I eventually developped a Dorwinion Wine belly.  At this point, our
dear friend Gandalf started calling me round in whatever language he
could, and let me tell you he knows a lot.  The name that finally stuck
to me was actully "The Circle" in a half forgotten language called
Qubcois French.  It sounds just like "eehhh L ron", but it's writtten
El Rond.  But I digress, Boromir(tm) can you tell us what is going on in
Gondor(tm)?'

'I came looking for help, the armies out of Mordor are getting stronger,
but it's not the number that are defeating us.  Some times dark riders
will come with the armies.  These dark riders have been known to start
tapping their feet to a rythm, dance a weird dance and then start
laughing at one of theirs.  The one being laughed at is the only one who
doesn't dance, and he looks rather sheepish when the others do.  When
they aren't doing their dance thing, those dark riders will get
everybody feeling at least somewhat romantic, and noone wants to fight
anymore, except for the orcs which seem to have rather violent mating
practices.  There was also a poem that me and my brother Faramir(tm)
heard in our dreams.  We talked about it to our father Denethor(tm) and
he told us to go and talk to the lore master El Rond about it.  Here's
how the poem goes:

	'Seek for the sword that tripped it's master
	One from the household of the round one will take note
	Shares there they shall muster
	Stronger than the nazdaq-quote
	There shall be shown a token
	That doom is near at hand
	For Isildur's shame shall waken
	And the midgets low shall stand'

At these words, Frodo and Bilbo felt an urge to stand up, which they
did, but they sat right back down before anyone could see them under the
ledge of the table.

'I now understand part of it' said Boromir(tm), 'but there is still much
left unexplained.'

'You shall learn more', Aragorn said weakly, 'Here is the sword that
tripped it's master and broke in the process and it shall be reforged. 
Hopefully it will bring more luck to it's current master: me.'

To properly present him El Rond said:'This is Aragorn, son of dim-witted
Arathorn, head-honcho of the Rangers of the North and direct descendant
of Isildur.'

'Yes and the ring belongs to me, not to you Frodo, I'd like to have it
back.'

'It doesn't belong to either of you' replied Gandalf, 'but just by the
fact that you want the ring, it is safer for it, for Arwen, and for all
womenfolk if it remains with Frodo.'

Then Gandalf stopped talking, roused most of the council
members and asked both Bilbo and Frodo to tell their stories as fast as
possible so that none would have time fall asleep before he got to say
his most important part of the story.  This they did, and Frodo skipped
the whole of the Casiopea Took episode, not wishing to be embarassed by
to much questioning.

When both Hobbits were done, Gandalf started rambling on about how he
had entered the Necromancer's dongeons, and how he found out it was
actually Sauron and there were no undeads in the fortress.  Then he
spoke of Aruman's opposition to kick Sauron out and how he finally
managed to convince him, so with a little help from the White Council,
he managed to kick Sauron out.  The he said how he found out that
Bilbo's ring was the all seducing Ring.  He was also pretty proud of
time when he threw Bilbo's ring into melted chocolate, and when he took
it out there was written in a fine script on it: "Eat me to be tall"
(Frodo being asleep at this time of Gandalf's self centered narative did
not hear that important peice of advice)  He also mentioned that some of
the information he knew came from a little creature called Gulible,
since he believed anything said to him.  The only frustrating part with
getting information out of Gulible was that he kept interrupting his
speech to lament on his lost power of seduction, but aside from that he
was quite a character.  An other point which Gandalf did not understand
in
Gulible's speech was his constant reference to his lost precious, he
surmised it must have been his make up or something.

After this, Gandalf recounted how he had found out that Aruman was a
traitor.  He had met Radagast who told him that dark skinned horsemen
were in the Shire and Aruman knew they were somehow tied to Sauron, so
he asked Galdalf to come to compare notes on them.  So Gandalf said that
he went to talk to Aruman and willingly let himself be captured by
Aruman, who actually wanted to get the Ring for his own sinister
purposes.  However, Gabdalf said he had arranged for Gwaihir Lord of the
Eagles to rescue him and leave him in Edoras, land of the horse lords. 
Once there, Gandalf wanted to see the King to get the permission to
borrow a horse, but the King was not there,so Gandalf started singning:

	Lundi matin Gandalf, son baton et son p'tit aigle
	Sont venu chez moi pour m'emprunter un ch'val
	Mais comme j'tais pas l
	Le petit aigle a dit
	Puisque c'est comme a nous reviendrons mardi.

Most of the Rohirrims around looked at him and though him kind of
senile, so Gandalf stopped singing and actually left with a horse and
left the King a message.  It said that Gandalf had borrowed his fastest
horse, since he was in great need of speed, and that he would return
Cable Connection eventually.  After a little detour looking for Frodo,
Gandalf came back to Rivendell, and that was the end of his story.

Bilbo, the only one still awake, nudged El Rond, who cleared his throat
and woke the others by the same occasion.  'Yes, then' he said 'it is
clear we have no choice but to destroy the Ring to get rid of Sauron'. 
'But why shouldn't we use the Ring ourselves' objected Boromir(tm) 'We
could seduce the orcs and get them to fight on our side!  We could get
Gondor(tm) to prevail!'  'Haven't you listened to anything that was
said?' asked Gandalf 'Even you informed us that the orcs were fairly
violent when your men feel romantic, this is simply because the standard
practice among orcs is to be fairly violent and eat human flesh in their
mating ritual.  There is noway any of us would be powerful enough to
prevent them from doing this.'

'We thus return to the destruction of the Ring' said Nestor, chief
butler of the household of El Rond, 'Who has the strenght to take the
Ring to the Fire which made it?'

'The eagles!' shouted Gloin, 'The eagles could do it by air within a few
days!'

As he shouted, Bilbo ducked to cover under the table, covering his head
with his hands and looking alarmingly towards the ceiling.  Seeing all
the quizical glances turned towards him, Bilbo explained that it was a
habit he had developped near the end of his first adventure, but would
not give any details. In the ensuing confusion, everyone forgot about
Gloin's suggestion.
 
While everybody was deep in thoughts about who should go, Gloin repeated
his suggestion, with the expected results, but this time Lego-lass
answered him:'I saw the eagles on my way here, they said that they would
be delayed because of turbulent air masses.  They also said that they
knew how urgent it was for whoever wsa to leave with the ring to leave,
so they would try and find him in the wild to bear him with all due
speed to his goal.'  So everybody fell back in deep thoughts. 

At this moment, Fordo woke up and exclaimed:'I need a deferment!!!'

'A yes, I remember your linsignificant friend Pipsqueak mentioning this'
replied El Rond.  'I will give you your deferement in exchange for a
little service...' Then El Rond went into a complex story that
completely confused Frodo so he agreed to sign the paper eventhough it
instatly transfered all of his assets to El Rond as soon as he claimed
his new estate.  El Rond also composed an other letter giving Frodo 10
years to claim his estate (he wanted to be on the safe side, you never
know with absent minded hobbits...).  But all this El Rond did on one
condition, that Frodo would bring his Ring to the fire where ot had been
made and that he would cast it into it.  All of the conditions were
accepted by Frodo, so he was given a few tips and pointers for his
journey, hte main one being to fear and be extremely careful around the
fire, for it was in a mountain called Mount Viagra.

'But you can't let him go alone' cried Sam who had been eavesdropping
while doing a bit of gardening outside the window.

'No we can't, and you at least will go with him' said El Rond.

'A nice pickle we've landed ourselves in' said Sam, 'A nice pickle, and
that's a fact.'
Later that day, after a couple of dinners, the hobbits held a
meeting in Bilbo's room.  Morrie and Pipsqueak were angry when they
heard that Sam, having been eavesdropping outside the Council, had
been chosen as Frodo's companion.
   "It's so unfair," said Pipsqueak between two seed-cakes.  "Instead
of cutting off his ears as a warning to the lower classes against
listening in on their betters, El Rond ~rewards~ him for his
presumption!"  Morrie had explained to Pipsqueak about the
freely-growing Cannabis Sativa probably found in the South, and
Pipsqueak was as eager to go there as Morrie was.
   "We should all go," said Bilbo.  "Winter is coming on, and spending
it under a warm sun would do my old bones quite a favour.

   ~When the North Wind rules the land
     and sleeting snows tear face like sand
   when Sun is seen an hour a day
     'tis best to be quite far away.~

Not that it is cold and drafty in El Rond's House; quite the contrary.
But the out-houses are just that - out-houses, and not heated."

   The Hobbits spent several weeks at Rivendell, wondering why it took
so long to decide who were to go South with Frodo and Sam, and so long
to get started.  But they didn't fret.  For one thing, Frodo consented
to lending the Ring to his hobbit friends now and again, including to
Bilbo on one occasion.  Since hobbits are so singularly capable of
sneaking, unseen and unheard, El Rond never found out about it.  Nor
did Gandalf, which would have been disastrous: wizards are wed to
celibacy in a way far more fundamental than Frodo had been until
recently, and he would have been certain in his envy to direct El
Rond's attention towards the adventurous hobbits' adventures.  Luckily
the deceptively perceptive wizard was busy in conference with El Rond
most of the time.  Occasional nightly clinking of glass and sagging,
blood-shot eyes in the mornings indicated to the hobbits what the two
were sometimes conferring about.  Strider was gone, officially in the
company of El Rond's two *sons*.  Where Arwen was, nobody knew.
Officially.
   Still, autumn was fading into winter.  The nights outside became
crisp and cloudless, and ghoulishly cold upon the bare earth; and they
became long.  When it was not Frodo's turn to have the Ring, he often
stood outside watching the stars.  Particularly the constellation of
Cassiopeia intrigued him, having nearly the same name as someone he
had known (or tried to know).  One of the elves told him that the
constellation was supposedly the ~throne~ of the beautiful princess
Cassiopeia, but the recently awakened Frodo quietly disagreed.
   One day he asked Gandalf about the Ring.  "Why is it that the Ring
confers invisibility only to some who wear it?  I become invisible,
Bilbo became invisible, but I noticed that Sam did not on the occasion
when he lent it."
   Gandalf shrugged.  "It's just the way of the Ring," he said.  "Some
become invisible, some do not."  He refrained from offering his
opinion: since the Ring was a tool of seduction, it would confer
invisibility to those with faces like last week's manure with maggots
in it.  Those with plain or even beautiful faces would not need their
features to be hidden from the eyes of the seductees.
   "Are you coming too," asked Frodo.
   "I believe I am, but I am not sure," replied the wizard.
   Frodo, who was not altogether thrilled at the prospect, asked: "Why
should you go?"
   "To keep an eye on the Ring, of course, and the Bearer."  But
Gandalf did not reveal the secret reasons why both he, El Rond, and
Aragon were so eager to see the Ring destroyed:
   To Gandalf, forced to remain celibate by his profession, the Ring
would be but a penis-ring, tormenting him with its very availability
while it existed, and the opportunities it offered.  El Rond suspected
what was happening in his House by the power of the Ring.  His wife
being long gone, he disliked the thought of other people getting what
was no longer available to him.  And as for Aragon, he hated and
feared the thought that it might come between himself and Arwen.

   The hobbits had spent the most pleasant two months of their lives
in the House of El Rond, when the scouts began to return.  Travelling
undercover, they had searched diligently for the ~nazdaq~, but neither
they nor the G-men of Sauron had been found.  Only those who had gone
West brought tidings of trouble, from The Forsaken Inn, from Bree and
from the Shire, where irate mobs were searching high and (most often)
low for Frodo and his companions.  But since they were not heading
home, this did not trouble them much as yet.
   El Rond summoned them to him.  He looked searchingly at Frodo, who
returned an innocent look.  "The time has come," he said.  "It is high
time that the Ring leave this house.  Not just you, but the Ring also.
We agreed, remember?"
   "Yes," sighed Frodo.  "I will go with Sam."
   "Then I must appoint your companions," said El Rond.
   "How about Sam, Margarita, and young Findu-lass", thought Frodo,
but he was wise enough not to think it aloud.
   El Rond said: "Nine shall you be: Nine Walkers, to oppose the Nine
Nazdaq men, who are evil.  With you, as your leader, shall Gandalf
go."  Unspoken: "...to keep an eye on you, that you don't slip out of
our agreement."  Spoken: "For the rest, I shall appoint members of the
other Free Peoples: Elves, Dwerrows, and Men."
   "And Women," said Arwen, who was standing a little away.  El Rond
ignored her routinely.
   "With you shall go Lego-lass for the Elves and Giggly for the
Dwerrows.  Two Men shall go: Aragon and Boromir.  Boromir has fought
Sauron before, and knows the procedures of his police force."
Unspoken: "And I really need to get Aragon away from my daughter."  El
Rond did not know how patently too late that was.
   "That leaves two," said Frodo.  "I know that Morrie and Pipsqueak
are willing."  ~Oh yes, both willing and able~.
   "And I am willing to send them," replied El Rond darkly.  Morrie
snickered behind his face, with practiced skill.

   The Sword of Elendil was reforged by Elvish smiths.  Not only did
they put the two pieces together, which requires great skill if the
joint is to be as strong as if the blade were newly-forged, but with
the improvements in metallurgy which had been make during the
millennia, they shaved a pound and a half off its weight, yet leaving
the blade far stronger and less brittle than it had been before.
   In Bilbo's room the old hobbit was busy giving Frodo advice.  Frodo
was busy feigning attentiveness: Bilbo was now an old hobbit, and he
still had a bit of fortune.
   "What about that sword of yours," Frodo said suddenly.  "Mine broke
when I was cutting a slice of bread with it, and since you are not
coming, you won't need yours."
   "Forget it, young rascal," answered Bilbo.  "It's been with me for
a long time, and it's dear to me."
   "And your mail-shirt?"
   "Frodo, my lad!  Why are you trying to get worldly things out of
me?  Don't you know that advice is the best that a hobbit of my age
can give to you?"  Then he continued lecturing Frodo on the merits of
stealth and burgling.  With his mouth Frodo said: "I cannot even begin
to thank you for this store of wisdom that you give to me."
   In reply, Bilbo sang:

   ~I lie upon my bed and miss
     the things that I have done
   with every lovely lass I've kissed
     and more - with every one.

   I walk upon the fragrant grass
     recalling seasons gone
   recalling everything that was
     recalling actions done.

   I look into the fire and see
     myself when I was strong.
   Whatever will become of me
     at death?  That won't be long.

   I look into my room and there
     are many things I stole.
   But now I have a mounting fear:
     a six feet, yawning hole~.

   Thus singing, he suddenly nodded off.  Frodo, taking some of
Bilbo's advice, helped himself to what Bilbo had refused to give him,
and tiptoed out of the room.

   It was a cold evening in the cold end of December when the Company
set out.  Only the four hobbits were (moderately) high-spirited: their
mood had been boosted by much that had been given them, without El
Rond's knowledge, although they of course regretted having to leave
those givers behind.  Boromir had another way to improve his spirits.
   He raised his horn.  "Always before setting out on a journey I do
this," he said.  He put his horn to his lips.  Then, "glug glug glug."
He grinned.  "You didn't seriously think that I use this horn to play
music or battle-blasts, did you," he said as he refilled it from El
Rond's farewell barrel of Margarita.  Gandalf looked at him
appraisingly: wizards, too, like to have stores of liquor with them;
and the store in Gandalf's huge wizard's hat was enough to float a
boat, or in other words, almost his fill for one evening.
   "You said that we were to be nine, Master El Rond," said Frodo.
"But here is Gates the ass with us, and that makes ten.  We really
should leave him here.  I'll go down to three silver pennies."
   El Rond just looked at the animal in disgust.  To Frodo: "You do
not have three silver pennies."  Actually Frodo did have more than
that, recently aquired; but he was not going to let El Rond (or Bilbo)
know this.  El Rond addressed the Company.
   "The Ring-bearer is setting out on the Quest of Mount Viagra.  Only
on him is any charge laid: neither to cast the Ring away, nor let any
outside the Company or myself handle it, nor sell it.  The rest of the
Company may follow him as long as chance allows or their travelling
cheques last."

   Now many cheerless days and weeks followed.  They made camp during
the day, lighting no fire, hiding from spies and elil.  During the
dark hours they walked as swiftly as they could, stopping only to pass
hraka now and again.  The icy wind made that very uncomfortable.  They
always buried their hraka, to leave as few traces as possible for elil
to follow.  Without Gandalf's Margarita, which he grudgingly doled out
on rare occasions, the others would have found the journey unbearable.
   Their first serious adventure after leaving Rivendell happened one
evening, when they saw a knight come thundering towards them from
behind a nearby rock.  Another followed swiftly behind; he bore a
spear in his left hand, and his right one was missing.  They were
riding rather fast horses, and couching his spear, the foremost one
aimed it at Lego-lass.  "Ai, ai, Sir Breuse Sans Pit is come," she
cried.  But Aragon leaped towards the approaching knight, beheading
his horse with his sword.  Sir Breuse tumbled to the ground.  The
other knight couched his spear with some left-handed difficulty and
aimed it at Aragon, but Boromir leaped forward, cutting of his
remaining hand.  "As Sir Blyaunte cut off Sir Bartelot's right hand,
so I have cut off his left one," said Boromir.
   Morrie, true to his character, leaped forwards and aimed a savage
kick at the stunned and prostrate man's voonerables.  Immediately the
tittering of the other hobbits and the pain in his toes made him
realize that, when kicking a man's voonerables, waiting until that man
has had his bloody plate armour removed is a good idea.  Especially
when you are a barefooted hobbit, and not a heavily-booted little man
of the Night Watch.  He shot a venomous glance at Pipsqueak.  "Eat
hraka, *Pipkin*!"  Pipsqueak stopped laughing immediately, clenching
his fists and baring his front teeth.
   In the meantime, Aragon had unlaced the fallen man's helmet and
beheaded him.  And some miles behind them, a female figure looked at
her fianc with surprised appraise.  "So there is some spunk in that
clod after all," she thought to herself.

   "Who was that man," asked Pipsqueak.
   "That was Sir Breuse Sans Pit," replied Boromir.  "The worst
coward and murderer who ever put a 'Sir' before his name.  He
especially enjoyed killing ladies.  Aragon must have avenged a whole
schoolful of them with that stroke."
   "What does 'Breuse Sans Pit' mean?"
   "It means 'the pitiless bruce'," said Frodo, "unless my Australian
is off the mark."

   As the Company settled under their blankets after that night's
march, Morrie heard Sam singing, a single line:

   ~...for he knew his toes could feel it...~

   An almost inaudible snickering told him that Frodo and Pipsqueak
had also heard that.

   Some days later they saw the Misty Mountains marching almost
straight across their path.  Nearly due south three mountains arose
above the main ridge.  Giggly began to smile warmly.
   "There they stand, the three mountains of Moira," he giggled.  "Oh,
Khazad-Mum, the Dwerrow-wench, who is called the Golden Pit.  Above
her house stand the three peaks erect: Barazinbar the Hardhorn,
Zirak-Zigil the Silverthrust, and Bundushathr the Risinghead.  Long
has she been absent from her house, we know not where though we know
why."
   "Why," asked Pipsqueak.
   "She was the undying wife of the Dwerrowen kingdom under the three
mountains," replied Giggly.  "But then, many lives of ordinary
Dwerrows ago, a terrible menace was awoken as the Dwerrows were
digging in the mines beneath the house.  The people were scattered,
and Moira lost."
   "The ~wife~ of the Dwerrowen ~kingdom~?" whispered Sam to Frodo.
   "Yes, the Dwerrows do tell strange tales concerning their lives and
fates in this world," replied Frodo.  "It is nothing compared to the
religious practices of certain pagan peoples of Men."
   "It is for the Dim Rill dale between the three mountains that we
are making," said Gandalf.  "There is a great ski resort there,on the
west side, where we may rest, and rent skis for the journey across the
pass of the Hardhorn Gate."
   "For whose money?" muttered Frodo.  "I have none left - that the
others know about, at least.  But many have IOU's with my names on
them, both Underhill and Baggins."

   The Company started climbing the pass.  But soon they noticed that
something was wrong.  In the far distance they could see the hotel,
and ski lifts leading upslope from it.  There should have been smoke
coming out of the chimneys, and the ski lifts should have been teeming
with activity, as should the snowy slopes.  But all was still.
Huffing and puffing with the exertion (especially Gandalf, the heavy
smoker), they reached the front door of the hotel.  There was a sign
on it.  "Temporarily closed by the health authorities."  The sign was
written both in Westron and in the Black Speech of Mordor, and so they
could guess what the real cause and motive were.  Steel bars behind
the windows prevented them from burgling their way in.  Only Frodo
breathed a sigh of relief, as they plodded on.

   Snow began to fall, and so did the temperature.  This, however, did
not bother the Company much, except when they had to bare their
backsides to pass hraka in some nook among the cliffs, wiping with
snow that was happily newly-fallen and soft, not composed of hard
sharp grains.  Nor were they troubled much by the rising wind, which
made the snow swirl.  El Rond had provided them with amply warm
clothes, made of double reindeer skins with the inner layer having the
hairs inwards: a trick learned from the Lossoth.  Even the hobbits had
put on soft boots of that make, except Morrie, who wore steel-capped
boots like Strider.  Worst was the loss of visibility, but both Aragon
and Gandalf had been that way before, and did not need to see their
road much ahead to follow it.  But other perils did the cruel pass
have in store for them.
   The wind wailed among the stones.  Rocks came crashing down from
the unseen heights above.  Gates the ass shivered and gibbered, and
only with threats and continual booting did they get the animal to
move forward.  "This is a weather for penguins, not asses," muttered
Sam.
   Eerie noises began wailing, shrieking and laughing maniacally.
Exclamation marks came in fives from the darkness around them.  The
hobbits grew uneasy.  "Is it the ~stallo~ we hear?" asked Pipsqueak.
"Or a sort of ~draug~ of the mountain?"  But he was not answered.
   Suddenly a gigantic dark figure loomed in the path just before
them.  They stopped dead, and two other figures appeared beside the
first one.  The dark figures strode forwards, appearing to shrink in
size but becoming sharper as they came closer, until before them stood
three customs officials with leering grins.  "I feared this,"
whispered Gandalf.  "These roving bands of customs officials and
immigration authorities often haunt this pass.  It is difficult to
pass them by."  ~Unless you leave them all your liquor and tobacco,
and don't belong to some minority.  But who will lose his liquor and
tobacco to these creatures?  Certainly not I~.
   "So," sneered the foremost figure.  "Anything to declare?"
   At once the Company began shouting abuse at the obnoxious men in
uniforms.
   "Abusing government officials, eh?"
   Suddenly Aragon, Boromir and Gandalf leaped forward, Giggly and
Lego-lass following.  There was a short, sharp affray, and soon the
customs officials lay bound and gagged beside the path.  Morrie, with
his inherited and ferocious animosity towards such creatures, hoped
that their thick greatcoats would not keep them from freezing to death
in the blizzard.  He made sure to kick them in the voonerables, hard
and cruelly, this time with boots on, and his victims without plate
armour.  Sam was little less hateful towards them, representatives of
an oppressive bourgeois State as he perceived them to be.  The same
went for Frodo: he saw them as representatives of Communist oppression
and control of free citizens.  The Company helped themselves from the
pockets of the customs officials, and moved on.  But the respite was
short.  Other such bands lay in wait further up.
   "Anything to declare?"
   ~Sock bam bonk~
   ~Rummage~
   Plod plod plod
   "Anything to declare?"
   ~Sock slam grind ouch~
   ~Rummage~
   Plod plod
   "What's in your packs then?"
   ~Bonk bang oof ding you big oaf~
   Soon it became obvious that they could not continue that way.
There were too many such bands, and they increased in size as the
Company ascended towards the crown of the pass that marked the border
between Eregion and Wilderland.  Soon, if they continued, they would
be overcome, thrown in the slammer, and have all their contraband
seized.  The last few bands of customs officials had looked with scorn
and contempt at the hobbits: "Well what have we here?  ~Minorities~?
Look rather ~minor~ to ~me~."  ~Sock sock aargh boink bang sod you
chtong - rummage~
   They stopped beneath a half-shelf that offered some shelter from
prying eyes.  There they spent the remainder of the night, cold but
not altogether cheerless.  At least this good had come of their
encounters with the roving bands of customs officials: they had some
loot to examine and divide.  It wasn't much.  The wandering tribes of
customs officials of the Misty Mountains, while seizing anything in
the possession of anything with a pulse, a flask and a purse, were
equally wont to spending it again swiftly.
   It was Morrie who discovered the most valuable treasure.  As he,
his back towards the rest of the Company, was rummaging through some
of the take, he found a little plastic bag with some dust in it.
Great was his pleasure when he discovered it to be a teaspoonful of
Vala dust, a very powerful narcotic.  Great was his chagrin when, as
he was gloating over his prize, Pipsqueak, peering over his shoulder,
gleefully announced his find to the others in that loud, high-pitched
voice of his.  Morrie was forced to share.  It was something which he
had never understood the point in - when it was his belongings being
shared.
   Gandalf forbade the Company to use any of the precious dope at that
time and place.  "We are high enough up as it is," he said.
   "I wasn't going to use it myself," Morrie sulked.  "*Some* of us
know how dangerous that stuff is."
   Morning came, revealing black specks further up the path.  Aragon,
experienced smuggler as he was, knew them for more customs officials.
"We cannot go that way," he said.  But turning back down, the Company
encountered the largest and fiercest band of customs officials that
they had yet met.  Standing a furlong down the path, they grinned
expectantly as the Company approached.  Their leader strode forwards.
In his hands were visa waivers, green and menacing, slips of stiff
paper almost like cardboard.  "Halt," he said.  "You must first fill
in these, if you want to pass."
   They took the visa waivers, and wearily they started filling them
out, none too truthfully.  The leader of the customs officials watched
them writing, closely.  Then he collected the waivers and examined
them.
   "Hold!" he shouted.  "These are filled out in the wrong colours!
It has to be with yellow ink, signatures in red!  You have written the
whole lot in black or blue.  At it again!"
   Boromir looked at Aragon.  Aragon looked at Boromir.
   ~Crash bang ouch splotch bang slam crack~
   ~Pant pant~
   ~Grind kick hate snarl biff sock pant bite sock~
   ~Pant~
   ~Rummage~
   Finally the road was clear.  Green visa waivers, many of them torn
to confetti, lay scattered upon the path or fluttered in the light
wind that came down from the pass.
   The Company began descending the path again.  The customs officials
of Charadhras had defeated them.  This time.
   A slender figure slid quietly into hiding between two boulders,
watching them pass by.  In her pockets were a few items which the
Company had missed in the dark when rummaging through the belongings
of the customs officials further down

Craban.
